Kodak Minor is a moon that exists far from the eclectic plain.  The sun rise and sun set is north to south for themes. The local world emerged from the circumstances of tidal forces orthogonal to those we would know of.  The world of Kodak Minor despite such properties is one with organisms whose tube feet and hexagonal body shapes are the dominant mega flora.  Their limbs elongate to do large gliding leaps, some even will use their shifting body weight and drag to get the drop on prey.  The forces of Darwinism are prevalent across the ecosystem despite the strange seeming biota.  Other biota include the usual roster of autotrophs, of whom attune themselves in more dish like shapes due to  the need to constantly adjust to the position of the sun from both a lunar and polar orbital pattern.  

Their lanky shapes from low gravity has led to spire biomes but nothing huge due to the lack of biomass for it.  The Jovian facing side of the world is also dominated by lichen-like growths that form the equivalent of gross while using many species of symbiotic meiofauna to achieve chemotrophy.  There is also large sessile radiotrophs, of which have a metalloid texture to them but they are comparatively sparse due to the declining radiation belt.  History analysis of the word suggests it may be a cyclic phenomena and a radioactive maxima had a historical epoch where radiotrophic flora dominated a large share of the world.  The interior and exterior regions of the world are differentiated due to the tidal lock, as expected with large orbiting moons.  The various biomes of Kodak Minor have been mostly in the twilight band, with the outer regions full of teal flora and the inner regions full of bluish flora with pockets of radiotrophic flora all over the planet in places correlated to heavy elements in the world's crust.

The phyla of the world include asymmetrical organisms that stride about the lichenoid biota whose tendrils trap the meiofauna and such.  There is nothing terribly standout in deviations from the expected classification systems, the expected niches are filled in.   Other organisms include fragmentation oriented animals that look like tetrapods at first impression but are really constantly regrowing their segmented limbs.  They are preyed on by the hexapodal gliders.

There isn't many aquatic biomes, mostly salty flood plains and lakes with oceans being mostly sparse due to the radiation flux over time slowly drying the world.  This may one day cause the extinction of all life on this world, but for now is mainly just why the storms and windy climate in various places have led to migrating drop gliders and the kinetotrophic vines found branching from the lanky flora in the twilight longtitudes where such wind fluxes are so strong and consistent kinetotrophic life emerged unlike on a world like earth where no long term storm patterns to exploit existed.   They are not parasitic vines usually, as they often bind the lanky trees to handle the wind currents.  The radioactive flux pattern over long spans of time seems to have made their strategy less viable in other time periods where megaradiotrophic flora dominated instead.  Other motile kinetotrophs exist from the vines as the vines are more alien than initially let on.  For one they fly in the wind in a nektonic fashion instead of the planktonic fashion expected of seeds.  As they are kinetotrophic their juvenile forms are propelling themselves to batter themselves against the current.  They feed on other seedlings from the more 'conventional' flora and other asymmetrical flying organisms in a heterotrophic fashion until they find a lank tree to bind to.  The various species of kinetotrophic vine will splay out in quills in many fashions.

#biosphere 
#detailed 
#irradiated 
#water-carbon 
#metallic 
