The waxy lipid substrate of the oily ethane seas of Kronos came together in membranes, unified and altered throughout the system. Congealing and melting together, the creatures of wax built themselves in embedded ices and lithotrophy where embedded substances within the ices help act as protein metabolism. The tholins raining from the sun give a continuous source of methane and ethane to metabolize. Quite a few waxy creatures on the world of Kronos as a clade is deeply sweltered out. Over time they stratified, differentiated and made themselves more elaborate. Their flora resembles biogenic candles more than anything on earth, with congregated pools of oily substances to act as reserves to absorb or trap other motile organisms in... to also absorb. Usual nature functions. The more motile organisms are very much organisms who have gained sharper, more scrappier and bonier appearances. The situation is one of organic crab beings walking to feed off the spores and wax. Wax grazers are often very spindly due to the gravity being martian at beast. Many more have adapted to gliding. There is an ecology of flying motile organisms everywhere, perched on the waxy candles with their trilateral forms shifting and ebbing to the situation. The Wax World is unlike the world the [[Glinnvyr]] were from, as the wax colonies and dominance of flying megafauna never happened on [[Clipsan]]. It is unclear if this is due to the Wax World being more/less developed or if that is a fair assessment of the biogenic waxes of the Wax World and the niches of life that have grown and reefed over time from it.

#biosphere 
#hydrocarbon 
#lithic 
#biosphere 