The Kazupymo ecology is a strong void ecology found in orbit of wolf rayet Star HIP 7681 that does lots of solar energy collection on their own volition and experiments in extreme radiation resistance for the exotic nature of the object.  Indeed Kazupymo translates to "star of absolute destruction" due to long term possible threats the star itself poses from its latent instability.  It is an ecology that had to be rediscovered, as it was one of the ecologies that formed during the custodian invasions when explorative activity retracted.  The ecology itself mutated in the mean time, adapting itself to the radiation of the star and congealing micro-worlds from the flimsy dust belt around the star to get some footing and a platform to grow from my aggregating asteroids in elaborate veins and twisted spirals of asteroid infused vacuum vines.  

Large white-pale blue flowers blossom here from the vines, getting radiation from the star itself while diverting the gamma radiation.  Such gamma flowers have petals that are rather metallic in texture, given the iron heavy minerals that go into growing them.  More elaborate entities are radiation filled, rigid yet transparent egg shaped things that gamma radiation streams through.  Streaming around itself are square segmented tendrils that it uses to latch itself onto vines to get their minerals in exchange for energy they collected.  Such things work in tandem to make a complex radiation resistant set of flora whose panels can be collected and refined into spacecraft armor.  This is but one example of [[Void Ecologies]] though there are trends, like the way they will through tendrils over time cluster asteroids into larger micro-worlds.  

#VoidEcology 
#ProspectSpace 