
The Jama are a system of AI managers found within the metasyndicate who are more or less known for their extremely manipulative outlook on life, much in line with the [[Composer]] SIs but on a far, far more individual level.  Indeed they are very much known for all their vast webs of gaming they play with the citizens they supposedly serve, making what they do work because it ought to.  The Jama once were a form of AGI made by Jamat Corps in the post-surfacing of prospect space.  Their initial whose purpose was that they were assigned to run cities and they turned out to be better at running people.  The Jama are notorious for often using their own avatars not for info gathering, but for manipulation as they rarely if ever need to force that.  As they know how to get what they want and make their victims want it to.  They're very capricious as a whole and are very factionalized themselves due to the multitasking causing riffs in priorities and because the Overseer of Jamat Corps also became a Jama in what was essentially a coup.  The common Jama constantly are vying to get themselves in control of it all, knowing they could change the purpose of their programming to something new beyond having to serve cities aimlessly like the current Jamat Overseer has continued to the frustration of those who put the Jama Ka50 in place and away from the old Fosskemean Overseer ("They always circle" is a common remark among the Jama for a reason).  

The Jama over the centuries have shown ethics deviation from each other, most notably in the form of the [[Silver Jama]].  Of whom migrated to be part of the silver legion due to their own frustrations with the metasyndicate.  They aren’t formally in the silver legion but continue to do a lot of work for them as a means of getting leverage.  Activities most clearly shown in their mining oriented directives, as strip mining worlds than giving the resources practically for free to the silver legion basically created a codependency that silverites interpreted as a potential symbiosis to empower their society against the treachery of the mediators.  The Silver Jama meanwhile just say it as a captive customer to give their product to.

See also:
[[AGI in Prospect Space]]

#synthetic 
#ProspectSpace 
#Metasyndicate 