
Exploring by flight due to the various forces encountered by on foot crews had led to the idea of sending a jet to the lower layers at the velocities accepted by sentinel automatas, of which did initially work. Until the clouds. The clouds are aggregations of the ambient utility mist which filled many sprawl regions, in most quantities it is inert and safe, to the point cleaning it off is mostly done as sample recovery. (In secured, quarantined zones but still). But in some formations it is exceedingly deadly, as the clouds revealed. 

The exploration shuttles kept a distance from them by default, but the clouds gaze was undeniable. They seemed to consciously study them as they explored the depths, an ominous sight as explorers in lower seem to brush up against more of the actual denizens of the sprawl. Of whom in modern times take unimaginable forms. The clouds are one of the saner forms encountered, except for how they will interfere with local climate conditions at the explorer's expense, like they don't care their actions impact us at all. Humans are at best, tolerated interlopers. But are outsiders all the same. Attempts to communicate with the cloud proved to be in error- the cloud managed to somehow concentrate a burst of energy at the shuttle and disable it from many kilometers away for trying to talk to it. Other clouds have proven more hostile than that, making regions hundreds of km in diameter inaccessible by flight. They seemingly have no discernible motives and even throwing automata at them could lead to to consequences unbearably dangerous for everyone involved.

#Sprawl 
#denizen 