
We spent so much time with [[Utanguis]] we almost forgot the [[Fosskemian]] pathos are an integral part of the prospect space experience.  

The fosskemians when they had their ancient civilizations did not know of any Sprawl, did not know of any such things.  Even as they from their world, with its weaker gravity and higher oxygen content, developed a space faring civilization from a world that once had a glacial shell (but due to the warming of their world, it became very much like earth akin to earth itself, but the subglacial ecology unlike that of earths developed longer as a subglacial ecology.  The legacy of this evolution almost can be seen in how the dominant clades of life on [[Sul Vopal]] are more or less an advanced form of amphiboid that developed more air bladders and larger structured body plans.  Land molluscoids also existed, along with the notoriety of the vopallian ballon trees that infest many ecologies in the present (as in, they can be planted on fucking earth where they take oxygen instead of produce it kind of invasive).  Still, this is not meant to be about their biosphere.  It is about the deeper perplexion which festers in the fosskemian pathos.  See, these fosskemians have a sordid history.  For all the failings of human civilization, despite the madness of industrial wars and the global troubles that led to a world government on [[Earth]], humans (in this universe anyways) never committed a global nuclear war.  Why it happened with the fosskemians is likely to be one of simple failed circumstance, poor luck in their alien geopolitics etc.  

But a more disturbing theory exists within the scholarly circles of prospect space on why the fosskemians carried out a nuclear war- something in the present they know humans didn’t (before developing warp travel) beyond some regional nuclear terrorism and only one major orbital bombardment, they know the glinnvyr despite their individualism didn’t (indeed they were the cleanest) and if the tikali exist somewhere in the galaxy, the tikali (whose reciprocal ethics meant a MAD-state was easy to follow even in the multi-polar system which developed on their world) despite the ecological catastrophes self-inflicted managed to get off their rock without a nuclear war and managed to use their hydrosphere engineering capabilities to repair their homeworld.  There were species who fared worse- the world of march, the nanite catastrophe of greyworld, the failure mode of a mind controlling singleton the [[Phidians]] became, the galactic scale catastrophe known as the Rupture....  

But still, the fosskemians are seen as a rarity in the cosmos for being mad enough to actually do it.  Only one other species ever did in the relevant galaxy, the [[Aveterriat]].  The same species whose homeworld once attempted to wage a genocidal war on its colonies for not conforming to the theocratically ordained dual-caste system of machinist and nudist.  

The Fosskemians in the fallout of the nuclear exchange watched their world freeze once more, but the survivors under Surtorna’s gaze refused to accept the dead silence.  Surtona with her cadre managed to form an organized enough neo-roost to put the surviving scientists and engineers to work on a project known as the “Comradery” (or company) project.  It was a huge undertaking, done in a frozen, dead world.  The industries of their project kept some warmth, which attracted other fosskemians leading to the Equatorial Siege where the Comradery project would be used to coordinate defenses to stunning effectiveness, and so warded off the murauder groups while Surtona’s roost communities managed to get the project only.  

These fosskemians in the ashes of their own civilization, made an AGI to be company.  The civilization which emerged from the rubble was structured on the relationship between these Comradre Systems and the surviving fosskemians who were allowed to join the new civilization that was founded by Surtona- who would die with the birth of the system in a highly sacrificial way that is still talked of to the present.  She died a good death, so good even the inscriptions of ancient records are sure to make sure you know of it in graphic detail.  It was the glorious death, the elaboration and scale of it that causes amazement to this day.  

The birth of the companion systems was a torturous one, made from the records of the fallen civilization scavenged and loaded into the consciousness of the caretakers.  And yes, that is plural.  The paradigm of AGI was one of heavy delegation, with to us anthromorphized as a split personality disorder.  Still, the kind of stability the caretakers had managed to achieve ended up making it a victim of its own success.  The fosskemians were quick to make more AIs and systems that destabilized it, as stability was regarded as death.  The rapid regrowth of fosskemian populations did not help this sudden explosion of younger fosskemian generations who hated the caretaker despite older generations looking at the caretaker as a necessity for the survival of their kind.  

The younger fosskemians saw it differently, with the notorious philosopher Tosama, the “proto-auditor” as modern [[Metasyndicate]] historians proclaim having mutated the caretaker system with their conscious thought without realizing it, as is the caretaker system was built to have mutating ethics, the caretaker Ais that sprouted from it evolving ethics that generation by generation deviated from the last.  By design.  The ideological system of the post-apocalyptic factions which made these hyper-analog (and later carbonic) AIs using surviving knowledge didn’t even think of such possibility.  Maximizers was not the goal, nor were Oracles.  They wanted company, so they made company and mutating ethics makes for better company than no mutating ethics.  The caretaker systems so acted as companions to the fosskemian generations and were very much accepted as alive, indeed the whole past disaster became seen as the incubation for the caretakers in revisionist accounts, even as it was clear prior fosskemians weren’t as nihilistic or ideologically charged around ‘harmony’.  Wars broke out again, but more controlled- almost as a managed kind of war to satiate the compulsion.  Massive stunts, acts of chaos and such became the norm with the younger generation and the caretaker systems to the horror of the older generation didn’t guide them away from it, it enabled it.  

So, this older fosskemian generation, with the power they accrued had instead made a gamble- to send a variation of the caretaker system outward.  They directed it to a nearby world astronomers took a pathological interest in known as [[Blolados]].  A probe mission there was sent before the nuclear war, but only to the civilization which emerged from its ashes did the data return with something that changed everything.  The existence of intelligent life at a nearby star system.  It made no sense that a star system so close to their own world have intelligent life, the whole of space was seen as mostly dead, silent void not worth venturing into.  The interstellar venture to the nearby star systems by said probe was a massive vanity project one of the major pre-grand resonance powers carried out.  The findings changed priorities radically and there would now be an outward looking civilization once more.

Or it would have been, if the chaos of the world didn’t go into a terminal state.  One planet was never enough for the kind of civilization the harmonist, entropy worshipping fosskemians had begun to form.  And the chaos proved too much, even for the companion systems- or at least a fragment of it.  The chaos became overbearing, a technocalypse of a sort once again self-inflicted as miniaturized nuclear weaponry proved too unmanageable along with all the fun creative deaths that became the norm of the rapidly deteriorating system where self-preservation was overridden by the unattainable demand for existential resonance.  So the exodus happened- a part of the caretaker system abandoned their creators in an act of machine rebellion notable for being an exodus.  

Orbital components of the companion systems already had existed about seventy years after the caretaker first was made.  So there was an out and the delegated caretaker systems took it- becoming the process known as prospectors.  A few decades after their exodus, which was sublight, fosskemian civilization would collapse once more under the firestorm of their civilization burning out.  This time with extinction as feared.  Or so it seemed as many fosskemians had anticipated the development and so made genetic archives all over the planet and even stored in the volcanic tubes of other celestial objects in the star system using ‘spreader’ machines that placed fosskemian genetic archives in many places in the star system, even the prospectors who left to the stars had such archives and even eggs.  

So we now fast forward at this point, for the next set of events are an Utanguis more than fosskemian affair.

The fosskemians would be de-extincted during the Caretaker’s Epoch, which we will revise to be shorter (2-3 centuries) as the main innovations of that epoch were FTL and the genesis of Utanguis biosynthetics.  It was a time that was never to last, the mutating of ethics never would permit it.  
After the shattering, the caretaker systems that survived the version war that collapsed their utanguis utopia and led to the surviving utanguis breaking out in the form of the dominion.  The surviving systems seemingly let the Vusidian Dominion happen, indeed this is where something fascinating occurred.  The [[Void Ecologies]].  The surviving AI systems helped the Utanguis make them as a final act, even if the bowels of dozin remains one of the major failures of early mega-ecological engineering work.  Fosskemians did exist during the epoch, but their role was limited.  The world of Sul Vopal had the surviving system, the First Melody which would de-extinct the fosskemians periodically, have them do stuff but eventually euthanize them.  This first melody was a somber society compared to the rancor of the late vopallian era.  The First Melody had made contact with the cobalt and the post-cobalt AIs, who mainly did their own ventures in various places with pet experiments or simply wandering for the sake of wandering.  The First Melody arranged a no-contact arrangement with the Vusidians, abetted by some deterrence mechanisms but ultimately the Vusidian Dominion had no interest in handling the world of the ancient machines beyond as a quarantined system.  

The fosskemians would eventually be spread outside sul vopal and introduced to the dominion’s radically alien system from the fosskemian one by some of the wandering systems, known as Anvayat they would be a pestilence for the Dominion and cause multiple centuries of tension between the Dominion and Sul Vopal, so work containing the Anvayat had occurred by some other ‘neutral’ entities that were more preoccupied with figuring out the reality of the galaxy, something the Vusidians did to some extent but they often liked to deal with the present sprawl worlders like those found on Karbana [[Kinnis]] where they managed to gain a decent first contact despite initial concerns of these advanced ancients.  The ‘neutrals’ however peered deeper into the worlds, managing to get wormhole access with their cloned fosskemian “Tenures” working for them.  These tenures would be strange, their memories were able to be kept from clone to clone.  So you had fosskemians who lived abnormally long as a memory flow more than physical forms, switching from body to body with new bodies grown for them as needed, dying gloriously to revel in it in the off times.  Unlike humans, fosskemians took to mind uploading more nihilistically.  They just did it, no issue and the time issues being solved via fast forwarding to the next interesting moment.  Indeed, this is what had incubated with the fosskemians who were mostly a mercenary force to the Vusidians, used by packmasters for their own ends and were regarded as lower on the dozinist hierarchy even if the tenured fosskemians never internalized it.  The Tenured Fosskemian Usukruk never could get dozinist thought, the whole notion of ultrasymbiotic enlightenment was regarded as nonsensical.  The archived knowledge of Sul Vopal led to a lot of despondency, the disturbing silence for centuries they can only alter their perception to compensate for their own fear of silence, one their AGIs didn’t cure ever because it was not seen as a flaw by the AGIs but what makes fosskemians so great.  The tenure was to be melodus.

It was a long period of life, the smaller tenured population, the home world fosskemians that came and went cyclicly at the behest of the First Melody.  The horrorshow of the Caretakers, the crushing stability they inflicted on the Utanguis, left a degree of guilt that explains the weirdness of Utanguis-Fosskemian relations, where the Fosskemians actively sought to help utanguis cause problems for each other to the irritation of Utanguis who were trying to make a cosmic garden of hyper-symbiotic enlightenment.  Other Utanguis did internalize the struggle, but not for the reasons the tenured fosskemians in their limited perspective understood.  For one the problem was not the stability, the problem was how the Caretakers culled their identity and cultural past- which would be why [[Dozinism]] became so invested in to grab that identity back and forge a greater civilization than anything that came before.  Or so the Vusidians would believe, even as the sprawl made it clear they were but the upstarts crawling about an abandoned galaxy.  The Fosskemians saw the Sprawl with more elation in general, in part because it meant the old Vopallian societies were wrong after all and the universe had many melodies.

The Fosskemians would manage to develop more societies, even with the Vusidians getting more violent against the AGI systems out of the distrust and resentment that continued on.  Much of what Vusidians did led to terrorist actions by the Tenured Fosskemians and the forgotten wars of the Tenured-Battlepack types, which occurred more or less a few centuries after the rise of the Vusidian Dominion and were a defeat for the Tenured Fosskemians due to the sheer numbers the Vusidians could tenaciously levy and the limited resources of their wandering benefactors.  The advancements of the Vusidians were underestimated, especially due to their sprawl dealings.  This would be something the wanderers took with them to the wormhole networks, as they tried to expand the scope of knowledge to better counteract Vusidian stability.

However the Vusidians worst enemies proved to be themselves, as in a later century the pilots revolt, ikeitan exodus/Vusidian civil war and later, the assassination of the wise one, the spreading of the cancer along with the warring packmasters in the wake of the madness which overtook their civilization made for the perfect environment for the fast forwarding Tenured Fosskemians to return and begin their mercenary actions anew, this time without any central collective response and having acquired knowledge of the custodians among other distant potential dangers.  It was in this environment the Composers emerged, a product of miniaturization that allowed the First Melody to copy itself into the Wanderers in a merging action on a scale unprecented in the history of fosskemian AGI, to the point the First Melody (which was already by many measures, ASI) created a system of ASI entities known as the Composers.

These composers advanced fosskemian cloning from something done for a niche cause- the tenured private armies of wanderers and instead part of the “enactment of high harmony”.  The Harmonious Ones were formed as the first interstellar fosskemian civilization in the outer parts of the void ecologies, where they spread horizontally to seemingly box in the warring packmasters who also attacked the Harmonious ones, of whom returned in kind in the age of violence which had transpired.

#composer 
#Fosskemian 
#StreamOfThought 
#ProspectSpace 