

The kind of system the Utanguis had formed, was one with violence adulation. The mentally and collective psyche that spread across a species as widespread as the utanguis is hard to truly get. Humans had their vanguard, but such megalomaniacal society as the vanguard always had the quiet reality they were still in the eyes of the galaxy, nothing. [[The Vanguard]] and post-Vanguard human societies always harbored a deep resentment against the galactic reality they found themselves in, having in prior times sold themselves on the idea of an open universe to make in their image. The sprawl even, didn't have such luxury.

The Utanguis and their [[Vusidian Dominion]] had no such quite reality, the sprawl to them was but a higher rung on the pyramid. But it was always a project of weaving higher symbiosis. The Utanguis saw themselves as those weavers, as the great integrators. The construct of the pyramid, the pyramid of dozin as inspired by ancient ruins from their home world. This was a belief that lapsed into a collective, dogmatic insanity. It was the basis of their analogous ideals of justice, liberation and such. They really do believe in this ordained role to existence, it is empirical science as far as they would will it. That they had to do as they did, they had to struggle down the road others refused. For they were all that could. Fosskemians were too finicky, unreliable. Vopson, too single minded, too selfish. The Whandl, too cowardly. The Sarkic, absent of perspective. The Utanguis believed their kind exceptional even faced with so many other beings like themselves, even with the core reality they were the uplifted pets of a Fosskemian made AI system. That didn't stop them from their formulation of purpose. It was hard to shake, so hard they had managed to perpetuate a unified civilization on their symbiotic faith and beliefs for over a millennium. One whose legacy on what prospect space is, remains inescapable. Who formed the void ecologies? Who developed bioships to the point of being an art form? Who uplifted numerous species in a society of species merit? Who built the old hyperspace conduits used even in the present? Who built the struggle roads?, standardized symbiosis rituals? The symbiont engineering revolution? Even the taming of antimatter? All products of the Vusidian Dominon over the course of a thousand years. Even with the traumatic fall of the Dominon, the Mediator Gestalt, Urzine Domain, Silverite Herds, Invuka Combine, Baluch Domain, Bilethought and even the An Appath are a continuation of the cultural and theological legacy which is said to have began with the Jiwarian Renaissance. Where in the Civic one sees a cutoff, a rejection of the Vanguardist past towards upgrade obsessed societies that rejected the very nature of their own kind, the Utanguis instead sought to adapt and advance the expression of what had been so long regarded as their nature. While dangerous thinking was no concept alien to the Utanguis- Silverite Herds see hard power as the truest way to understand one's place in Dozin's hierarchy, the the Mediators meanwhile were much more into soft power to the point they held to a pretense of scientific Dozinism and even tried to spread Dozinism to the Metasyndicate, Urzine with their bioship fleet leaders are hostile to the very being known as Dozin and the Bilethought see their kind as fulfilling the supposed final judgement of Dozin- that is the great punishment for the god killer's striking down of Dozin's avatar. The An Appath meanwhile sought to break with the hierarchal aspects of Dozinism for a more egalitarian "wheel" they proclaimed the truer expression of Dozinism. The funny thing about all these beings is that they all believe there is a Dozin, that there is an integrative imperative and that the leviathan societies shall fight whatever the underlying doctrinal disagreements.

The Metasyndicate is generally regarded as nihilistic, even as there is clear evidence the harmonious tonalities the composers and the agents that act within has spread idea-wise to the Utanguis, there are utanguis in the Metasyndicate after all. Their extreme materialism and being in some ways, a massive societal experiment in ultimate expression of harmonious chaos and entropy worship was a departure so radical from Dozinism that it could only be tolerated as the activities of alien morality clashes. A civilization the Utanguis led societies would dismiss as Fosskemian fickleness writ large. The Metasyndicate's hegemonic presence remains undeniable either way, and their own integrations of leviathanist statecraft can be seen as just a way civilizations cross syncretized in prospect space, as perspective analogizing was just common to high information exposure.

Vopson swarms often would be regarded as a parody of the Uranguis norms, as the swarm minds had their own hubris. They simplified the hierarchy of Dozin into a mere pecking order instead of the network of symbiotic relations that the utanguis understood it as. The Glowing Swarm saw vopson as supreme, the swarm minds greater than the lesser animals, they imposed their order in their swarm, they saw each species rank as free to do anything they willed to the lesser species. That this is unnervingly akin to the Golden Swarm humans had to defeat is not something lost on what humans that go to prospect space at all.

This is why the Whandl are an often overlooked force, as one of the only species to have a faction of significance in the era of Vusidian civilization. The Congregation of Fuzz, from the dark world of Liduzum had made a powerful organization that kept enough deterrence to keep the Vusidians to bother with them. It is a forgotten civilization, one that basically operated through a complex web of relationships between their congregations and pack masters in their sectors that kept the independence. Why utanguis pack masters cooperated with the congregation? Because they had acidic industry, they had the silks, they had powerful resources when it came to their cascading battery tech as well. It was a thing.

#Whandl 
#ProspectSpace 
#vopson 
#StreamOfThought 