
The kind of system the [[Utanguis]] had formed, was one with violence adulation.  The mentally and collective psyche that spread across a species as widespread as the utanguis is hard to truly get.  Humans had their vanguard, but such megalomaniacal society as the vanguard always had the quiet reality they were still in the eyes of the galaxy, nothing.  

The [[Metasyndicate]] is generally regarded as nihilistic, even as there is clear evidence the harmonious tonalities the composers and the agents that act within has spread idea-wise to the Utanguis, there are utanguis in the Metasyndicate after all.  Their extreme materialism and being in some ways, a massive societal experiment in ultimate expression of harmonious chaos and entropy worship was a departure so radical from [[Dozinism]] that it could only be tolerated as the activities of alien morality clashes.  A civilization the Utanguis led societies would dismiss as [[Fosskemian]] fickleness writ large.  The Metasyndicate's hegemonic presence remains undeniable either way, and their own integrations of leviathanist statecraft can be seen as just a way civilizations cross syncretized in prospect space, as perspective analogizing was just common to high information exposure.  

[[Vopson]] swarms often would be regarded as a parody of the Uranguis norms, as the swarm minds had their own hubris.  They simplified the hierarchy of [[Dozin]] into a mere pecking order instead of the network of symbiotic relations that the utanguis understood it as.  The Glowing Swarm saw vopson as supreme, the swarm minds greater than the lesser animals, they imposed their order in their swarm, they saw each species rank as free to do anything they willed to the lesser species.  That this is unnervingly akin to the Golden Swarm humans had to defeat is not something lost on what humans that go to prospect space at all.    

This is why the [[Whandl]] are an often overlooked force, as one of the only species to have a faction of significance in the era of Vusidian civilization.  The Congregation of Fuzz, from the dark world of [[Liduzum]] had made a powerful organization that kept enough deterrence to keep the Vusidians to bother with them.  It is a forgotten civilization, one that basically operated through a complex web of relationships between their congregations and pack masters in their sectors that kept the independence.  Why utanguis pack masters cooperated with the congregation?  Because they had acidic industry, they had the silks, they had powerful resources when it came to their cascading battery tech as well.  It was a thing.

#ProspectSpace 
#StreamOfThought 
#Utanguis 
