

The flow of Architects
 
When it comes to the civilization cluster declared "[[The Architects]]", one wonders what separates their kind from the Sprawl.  Both build big structures!  However that is where the similarities end.
 
The Architect intent is far different and the designs show this- they build with artistic and ceremonial intents, as expressions of abstract ideals on the perpetual states of existence in their flow.  This romanticism is to extent the Sprawl who saw the buildings as just a means to an end never reached- the structure is the point.  The structure is pure expression.  This is especially the case with Aveterriats, and why whole wars have broken out over acts of cosmic vandalism.  The intricate designs of gravity balancing clusters of co-orbiting artificial worlds in their higher harmonies is something the sprawl and its emphasis on templates wouldn't consider doing.  The kind of rapid come and go fiefdoms various glinnvyr with extremely idealized visions for the galaxy also was absent with the more pragmatic hegemony for the sake of hegemony outlook of the sprawl.  It is way more pathological than the kind of value imparting or synergy seeking usually found with integrating other species.  Such mindsets were what would lead to the Ascension War and the [[Custodians]] themselves- beings so detached from material existence they see our universe as one of many others.  A view supported by how many custodians were born and raised in the multiversal simulations.  They may be aware our universe "came earlier" but do not see this as the same as "more important" or "came first".  Yet still the custodians exist with our galaxy because there is still fear and attachment- our universe is one that must be spread to like the others but the sprawl and the "distant spreaders" on the other side of the galaxy represent X-factors they try to keep from being a threat to them as they remain paranoid especially of the other societies of the architect who act as another check on the Custodians.  
 
The architects as a whole basically follow a more reddish/pink/brown aesthetic 
 
 
Unknown 5000 year old (~2000 BC) artifact of the realm lords and their post-sprawl projects in space time manipulation.  
 
Ancient architect basically had to survive the mess the Sprawl had Made, with the ancient Inshans mostly bunkering down around 4000 BC.  This also spawned the Zikelli clade of interstellar travelers, as well have insight into the malleability of space time itself to the [[Glinnvyr]].  The kinds of war machinery left over from the Sprawl made large parts of the scattered volumes not habitable, but this didn't stop other regions from being islands of packed populations in the flux.  This is part of where their somewhat counter intuitive dense populations came from, given how the Glinnvyr typically are more for scattering out even without incentives given by a war that is regionally contorted space-time itself.  
 
The Glinnvyr experiments of these times were known to have had nasty repercussions, but they continued regardless with their pet projects and the horrid side effects they produced- often creating extremely warped solipsistic minds and the Dreaming Ones who would for a time be a dominant cult force in the area even with Zikelli subterfuge and the builders building regardless. 
 
The [[Aveterriat]] entered the picture with the Glinnvyr on the fringe of society interfering with their once stay at home society, of which had advanced metallurgical understanding that proved helpful in surviving the Breaker’s attempt to purge their planet.  The Breaker bombed from orbit before landing, killed in droves many more, not with any systemic cause for extermination but seemingly to see how many it could kill.  That answer was 4.7 billion, the Aveterriat numbered around 21 billion.  Needless to say the surviving Aveterriat were fast to reshape their civilization in response to what they came to see as their hopes for hiding lost.  The Aveterriat had for a while been mostly planet bound as they saw parts of the sprawl wars play out in their night skies- and so retreated into the caverns of their porous and arid world.  This is part of why the Aveterriat had more advanced tech that they reasonably would, as they had been mostly a hidden society until the Breaker stumbled across them and chose to terrorize them out of a desire to inflict despair on their kind.  The Breaker believed itself to have succeeded even after thousands of nuclear missiles finally broke through and killed the Breaker.  After all the damage was done.  
 
The Aveterriat system of world states and the protectorate came from all that and they arrived at the same time the Dreaming Ones had their dream wars from vandal schisms.  A new X-factor more advanced than reasonable and highly hostile to the Glinnvyr.  The Aveterriat technologically jumped rapidly from their prior point, applying industrial logistics and mass production to a wide range of insane geo engineering projects in a renaissance of geomagnetic and world ship design that would see its zenith in the formation of Vmiskii monopolar metallurgy.  While neutronium was an option it was a lot harder to make than monopole doped meta material alloys.  These advancements were impressive and upended a lot of the dynamics of the Architect.  The Aveterriat were a more virulent sapient and their communal lifestyles mixed with an obsession with maximal labor led them to making industrial meritocratic systems unthinkable even with humans.  Their lack of corruption was however tempered by their heavy handed ness and dominant thinking traps- the kind the Glinnvyr only stumbled sometimes into.  The Chromatist Glinnvyr, who arose quite a while after the abandonment of the Dreaming One's projects did know what they were doing when they helped the Vmiskii Empire form for one.  They had known the Vmiskii would emphasize Aveterriat worlds for takeover over glinnvyr worlds, of which were more advanced and distant.  Other regions of the architect however showed a radically different story than the ongoing feud between different species- they showed a higher order of communitarian aestheticism.  It is not clear how this came about, some say it was the inspiration of the builders- others just the major forces that be stumbling across mutual arrangements.  [[The Architects]] themselves were a multi-species entity, as their identity was tied to the structures they built.  They had practical uses in terms of megastructure sieges, which were plentiful with the perfidious maneuvers of Zikelli nomads, the rancor of the Vmiskii or the obsessions of beings like Ovatar.  They also helped in spreading the Vitani epidemic- and in curing it due to the density of information which such superstructural feats had allowed to accrue instead of the scattered expertise of prior waves.  While the space-time distortions and meta material technologies of prior groups existed none of this was in the minds of the Architects enough to handle the problem of the Sprawl or in the flow of the architecture.  For that denser computational clout and more recursive experimentation was needed.  They had stumbled into, basically independent of the sprawl, the means to make microverses.  These were bulkier than the sprawl, they needed spaceships.  But the tech was there regardless.  And it proved to be what was needed to break into the Sprawl deeper than prior glinnvyr efforts.  
 
In doing so the Architects opened a pathway to our side of the galaxy around what to us would be 1900 AD where an Architectural One known as Ika Valuli had managed to secure passage to the other side of the galaxy through a range of deals with the Outer Nexus not completely clear in their implication.  However it did mean that explorers from the Architect managed to breach to our side of the galaxy.  At the time the main interstellar civilization they knew of was the Prospect Spacer volume, which was dominated by the Vasudian Dominion.  [[Earth]] was cataloged as a known place with life around this time as well, but it would take them sending closer observers to see what kind of life and sprawl activity existed in our less known part of the galaxy.  The Vasudian Dominion contact incident was pretty brutal, as it came about at an already messy time period for the Dominion mired in feuding packs, rebelling bioships and corruption crises hard for the exploring entities to even understand.   They were mostly told by the utanguis to keep out of their affairs.  Still there was disgust at the entropy they had predicted- the Prospect Spacers as a cosmic liability was an idea that had existed centuries before there was a custodian invasion.
 
It is not clear when these architects came across earth or long step, but the potential for UAPs to have been said architect explorers is a fuzzy area and the clearest account appeared around 2097 with Sedna anomalies that may have influenced research towards FTL research.  Humans had already known of the sprawl and at the time didn't know they had already been known of by two civilizations- prospect spacers would also know of human societies by proxy data logs from architect explorers that prospect spacer AIs attained at the time the Vasudian Dominion fell.  
 
All of which was observed by those architect explorers who were resoundly disturbed as the entropy just grew and the xenoforming WMDs the dominion had stockpiled were deployed across many star systems in retaliation against their eternal ruler being assassinated.  Where the Dreaming Ones simply went their separate ways in relative peace, the Prospect Spacers instead lapsed into mass violence, factionalism and feuding to such extent and depravity it led to calls to quarantine our whole region of the galaxy.  The issues in their volumes however would take precedent as another slate of vandalism occurred and the Ascension War broke out.  
 
The Ascension War basically was apocalyptic in many regards- the Architectural Ones were mass uploaded by force in the great ascension.  This ascension took over while the explorers on our side of the galaxy were analyzing through the data as they realized another civilization somehow broke through- The [[Tikali]].  It is not certain what their deal was, other than how human societies were expanding and how anarchy overtook the largest civilization in our part of the galaxy.   The Ascension War was an insanely violent conflict, one that basically overwrote a whole part of the Architect in what to this day is known as Custodian Controlled Space.  The Custodians were basically the branch of the multiversal ascensionists that interacted with our primordial universe.  They in an act of cosmic irony, were quarantined as if they were a null swarm.  Not by hard limits but by paranoia of the X-factors.  Even if other factions of the architect could be beaten down, there remained what unknown aspects of the sprawl exist, there remained the [[Virgo]], there remained the distant societies who were least observable.  Especially as the Outer Nexus cut their wormholes off from the ancient deal running its course.  Still the Custodians already knew where the distant societies existed.  
 
And therein lies a question- Why did the Custodians try to purge and "bring order" to [[Prospect Space]]?  The tensions of explorers and hostility to them were not enough.  It was if anything an expected reality of dealing with such distant and removed societies.  [[The Sprawl]] may have factored- but only because Prospect Spacers proved to do stuff the Architects would never dare try.  The chaos and violence of prospect space as the architects saw it, was cosmic arson.  And it is a question if the sprawl had begun to agree.  
 
Regardless there was an invasion that had to be done the long route, as the Sprawl didn't care and the custodians were never able to make arrangements with the Outer Nexus like the Glinnvyr could.  If anything the Synchronic League intercepted their attempts not wanting the custodians to destroy more of the great structures.  The Vmiskii Domain had been shaken by ascension and had reformed, but still no one wanted to really risk waking the sleeping giants.  They didn't know if they could defeat the Ascended armadas in a total war situation, just as the Custodians or those within the recursive multiverses had too much uncertainty about what they could do- indeed snuffing out X-factors in the way of a truly galactic ascension was the main goal.  That meant going to the sprawl, that meant going around the galaxy.  They didn't see the Virgo as a risk and figured once they consolidated the galaxy again they would be able to come to an arrangement with the higher order beings. The Architect was very aware of intergalactic societies, but saw them as more terrain than part of the accessible galaxy.  They just needed to not get in their way and they could do as they desired.  
 
Still, this is why the Custodians attempted to wipe out Prospect Space as an X-factor.  They went about Prospect Space trying to purge it thinking it weakened by their mutilations, only to find they were strengthened by it in ways so twisted and warped it only vindicated their own cause.  It didn't start as extermination, at first the goal was to force a submission and stabilize their society for the time their ascension could come.  The Custodians would ironically find a more receptive audience with the civics but found the [[Silent Pact]] as an X-factor caused by Architect explorers who hated the ascension as much as they hated prospect space.  The [[Silent Pact]] was in many ways their way of fucking both those societies over.  For that reason the Custodians attacked not only those rogue architects but also the whole Insarma Foundation, purging their research, purging those they saw as connected to it and so on.  But the Silents managed to somehow still escape- be it due to the architects or data ship protocols that seemingly anticipated just the kind of act the Custodian group in our part of the galaxy carried out.  The rogue architects were killed by the custodians.  Insarma may have however escaped to another volume.... Paranoia as a trait is all too common with intelligent life!
 
Custodian activities were wide ranging with prospect space as Prospect Spacer tenacity, their shocking productivity with antimatter and their AI systems managing to make logical jumps around the Custodian kill entities to break their logistics chains led to at some point a retreat- in part from issues within the architect, in part due to returning to a policy of quarantine as the tailspinning chaos of prospect space just appeared terminal.  The custodians could only work to increase the probability they burn themselves out before spreading to their part of the galaxy.  This shift did seemingly improve things within the architect, but the Syncronocity and Vmiskii were already dealing with a Laronian pestilence the Custodians would aggressively wipe out over the next couple centuries when they weren't trying to monitor and subvert X-factors to their galactic ascension plans.  Indeed the custodians went to a charm offensive approach on some level, spreading ascension cults to destabilize societies and raiding the sprawl for any noticed weirdness.  At the same time glinnvyr and Zikelli vandals managed to find ways to ascend without ascending- that is, transport to the multiverse without abandoning it as they should.  Interloper populations proved an ongoing issue as did the barbaric raids of the Silent Pact attacking their monitoring groups of the "disturbed spirals".  
 
Basically the Sprawl verse has multiple societies who act like they run a galactic community.  The Architects with their Custodians and their ascension ideals are one of them.  The Composers and their ideals of cosmic harmony are another.  The Silent Pact is still seen as basically a regional force that terrorizes custodians sent to deal with the disturbed spirals.  Than the Sprawl and their Outer Nexus who are more transactional and with the mindset the scavenger societies come to them.

#timeline 
#StreamOfThought 
