
A reactionary revolution that effectively shifted the Slinvusians away from the Cobaltine order of the caretakers. One of the reasons [[Jiwar]] survived the best in the shattered cobalt was because of how the version war played out in a way where Slinvus were often kept protected from the violence in general, often being collateral. Of course as the shattering overwhelmed the unraveling identity of the caretaker AIs many Slinvus did indeed perish, leaving as the survivors the Slinvus who had their own separate infrastructure. The post-caretaker version of the Cobalt that "won" the version war had an agenda built around the exploration and understanding of sprawl worlds that their probes found by tracing the remnants of more ancient sprawl probes and simply the information of the dying stars which fosskemians had in their time mostly missed due to the static technosignatures their more ancient world way as [[Blolados]]/[[Sul Vopal]] both existed in an area of the galaxy far away from the populated ecumenical clusters even compared to Sol let alone places like [[Clipsan]] or [[Sidilico]] (Karbana [[Kinnis]] was a distant world from the bulkmojfnthenecumenical). The sprawl did lead in part to the dozinist system by proxy, for dozinist pyramids put other more advanced civilizations above the Slinvus, as part of the species ranking institutions that the knowledge gathering from ancient bloladian societies to rebuild the true Slinvus from the long oppression of the cobalt. 

In many ways they were a post-AI society, having instead made use of bio synthetic tech instead of the carbon computation of caretaker design. The fosskemian species was known of by the Slinvus, but in these times the fosskemians were regarded as a dead species with their AI being believed to be all that survived their short sighted kind. The Slinvus did believe there may have been a universe where the fosskemians themselves invaded Blolados instead of their AI, so there was fiction around the concept as it was believed the fosskemian organics would have been easier to handle than their AI. Whatever the case the Slinvus would in the depths of the post-shattering age proved very interested in rebuilding ancient beliefs and one in particular proved of great inspiration- a massive pyramid in the tundric latitudes of Blolados that survived the shattering itself. It was built two thousand years ago, long before the prospector AIs arrive and even predated the societies that made contact with the uplifted probes. The pyramid of dozin was what it would become known as, with what surviving records and information being recovered in the deep heaps and computational archives the caretakers kept for themselves but limited the distribution of as part of their own initiative to save the slinvus from their supposedly wretched past baggage. 

The post-shattering however opened an ease for the slinvus to get that ancient knowledge, along with the biotech that was first developed in the cobalt times and than further developed with the lax ethical standards of jiwarian science. Such lax ethics proved bad news for some of the nearby biospheres and made some of the archeological activities on Blolados sketchy with the scams and myth making many slinvus engaged in. Such unfortunate realities of the [[Vusidian Dominion]]'s foundations were mostly glossed as the myth making became the point anyways. The Slinvus wanted story and narrative, they wanted plays of ancient legends, they wanted to bring back the spirit of ancient times and in the process bring into existence dozin who had in their minds, been crushed by the cobalt. In truth later archeology done with better methods would find with cross referenced sprawl data and other such pools of knowledge found to be in Vopallian archives of all places reveal a more complex picture of pre-cobalt slinvus that was systemically purged by the caretaker systems.

It was from this environment the revelations of Vusidian fundamentals emerged, as the play makers and truth speakers became enamored with the dozin question and the militant branch of their faith simply proved more virulent than the more secular jiwarian factions who often were dependent leftovers while migrated to jiwar, as those that didn't adopt dozinist thought were left a marginalized part of society. The coddled without their caretakers were a deadweight, but the Jiwarian kept them around due to some of the value they had in bioengineering and as a proxy loop hole in the dozinist theology for less scrupulous activities.

The being of dozin had as its infrastructure pyramid structures, they were sharp trigonal pyramids that around them sloped in increments to create a large obelisk where symbiosis rituals, tarvitz feasting, pain contests, biotech demonstrations, rank dueling and other such pack activities could be done. Such obelisk structures would come paired in a later age with vast struggle road networks where the obelisks acted as the points one could initiate and leave the struggle road. Packs of Slinvus usually rested together under large complexes known in the lexicon as the vidumus systems due to lacking a good translation. There are other systems in place, like temporary setups by more nomadic packs and the larger herd blocs used by more collectivistic slinvus.

#incident 
#[[Utanguis]] 
#ProspectSpace 
#historical 