 had a dream once, of a world where they spoke without speaking.  A discrete world, where life was somber and sedate.  Our dismissive minds saw them as non-intelligent even as they executively cultivated the algae of their world to optimize their kind and their polyps did work.  We were so wrapped up in what a civilization is we missed something that led a happiness of sorts we never could get.  A happiness with existence.  They figured out existence in ways we still don't understand.  Some just dismissed them as the happy fool- get their intelligence was great enough to alter their whole homeworld of LW-A-181007.  The seas were calm, the nutrients flowed with the currents. A vast population of sessile organisms teemed in pleasant humming thought.  No organisms predated on them, whatever once did was deterred to the point their diet no longer had the sessiles.  No parasites infested them, the polyps assured that.   The clusters of sessiles went in for continents, in geometric placements which made use of the nutrients given by the currents in ways that were bathed them in constant food and gametes.  The kind of existence they lived was one where they had freed themselves of all suffering existence could throw at them, and all without ever leaving their world of LW-A-181007.   Their intricate horticulture and dense geometric arrangements pulsated and swayed with the seas, bristling polyps mixed with the dense conic shells of the sessiles.  All in perfunctory purity.  They have been doing so for millions of years and don't appear to be in any rush to break free from their home world, if a world mind develops here remains up to speculation.  What matters is what is there now, and that is the harmony they achieved.  One that stands in the face of civilizations unable to be happy with an entire planet- and still aren't, even after millions of worlds have fallen to the interstellar civs.

So we now see a place where humans emerged.  Evolution as a force never fit the cosmos. It was inconsistent, unpredictable and niche in its appearances.  The first life appeared with the universe as soon as it physically could.  But for a time we had a shepherd for the cosmos, one that kept existence a pristine one.  Mediations on the purpose of the universe as a complexity generator aside, the universe for most of its existence was kept pristine with the Vikun Passage and then one day, the vikun passage shut off.  We don't know why these events occur, they happen from time to time as a part of a greater cosmological incidence.  On a smaller scale it caused wormholes to break down, on a larger scale it lead to the universe drifting apart.  The maligned forces at play led to eons long gaps of time between the eons of matter domination and the drift.

Whatever the case, we saw now what happened.  A rapid ascendency of the systems the universe had began to bubble apart.  The living systems.  They came about as a thermodynamics property, to which we owe nothing but gratitude.  The shifting planes of eternity had as a byproduct these entities, made from a stew of primordial scum on the worlds.  The caprice of natural selection, the arbitrary nature of it led to horror.  Something the universe barely had before.  A star's novae was as close as one could get to such horror, but even than it left behind a serene after image in the purity of the cosmic void.  Natural selection however, was much less virile.  It made concepts like pain, misery, parasitism and decay.  It imbued material beings with consciousness- something we had once thought only could exist in the form of our conscious existence.  But here it was, mockingly rendered by the cosmology in ways that trapped and enslaved those minds to the reckless evil of biological existence.  Minds of thought and perception that were cursed to exist on a limited timer, then perish.  And often from capricious causes incentivized so cruelly by the evolutionary process.  Autotrophs competed for sunlight, organisms evolved to devour other organisms.  Kind a like the Others still evolved to live on the death and decay of the life around it.  Yet even here in the cruelty there was still an almost greater consciousness at work, one that pushed some organisms to a symbiotic cooperation.  An act of defiance against the cruelty imperative of natural selection.  The first shot in that war material consciousness had to wage against the warped cruelty and sadism of existence it imposed upon all material beings in its use of limits to incentivize evil activities.  One which the sessiles of LW-A-181007 were winning.

But that caprice, had Allies.  Intelligence in some of these organisms came to see that evil of natural selection as something to not only concede to but make more intense, in the belief such suffering would make them stronger.  All it did was leave them wanting.    Wanting ever more at the expense of others, even when presented with the vastness of entire galaxies.  They believed even one other world was a potential danger to them; no matter how much they already were freed of the pressures their environment once imposed.

The sessiles had no answer to the kind of depravity which they would bear witness to.  Some would say they were too out of touch with what some life was like- others still that the fundamental evil had to retaliate against beings who forgot that cruelty was the whole point of their living, material existence.  And that even thoughts yo defy what they saw as immutable laws of nature had to be eliminated no matter how artificial and contrived their methods were.  For what organism in nature had lasers able to fry entire atmospheres?  No, this had become something worse, something more pathetic and sad that ever before.  Beings who achieved a technological ascension from their evolutionary legacy only to abstract the worst aspects of it to perpetuate it miserably into places it never had any business being.  That laser used to drive a world to extinction out of the anger it caused that civilization to learn of the harmony and peace the sessiles had achieved could have made their own kind happier.  But that happiness was never the point.  To them it would have made them weak and to vindicate that they committed genocide as a massive, unnatural acts of violence.  Even in nature, predation was merely a brief selfish act of violence.  It was not a systemic act, it was merely done at times because existence had evolved them to only be able to survive that way.  The violence of genocide has no natural cause- yet it is seen as a natural imperative by its perpetuator no matter how out of touch with reality they are.  So obsessively hateful with supposed cancers they become a cancer on existence themselves.  Such was the universe, an increasing patch work of these spreaders.  They had a cosmic entitlement syndrome,  believing all the stars and galaxies should be theirs and existing for them alone.

Such beings however, failed to see how their own actions were a nonsensical rift.  They ended up fragmenting and atrophying into ever more self-destructive behaviors.  Or giving up on expansion in favor of civilization crystals that simply dominated a part of the cosmos they could and holding together what of the universe their control pathology sought to hold.  Their ways did not hold.  They came to hate each other more than those who had the misfortune of sharing the same region of the universe.  They began to cannibalize as their desire to control the universe meant countless beings with the capacity to destroy worlds clashing.  It was apocalyptic in practice, the only survivors being huddled up in static civilizations armed and suspicious of each other.

And as all the chaos happened in the stars, the blighted world of LW-A-181007 remained blighted, the white dwarf rising and setting in all its silent serenity.

It was at that point, the dream ended.  

#cosmic 
#dream
#essay 