
**Blue One's tenure, the first 30 years**

In the collapse, the Vanguard's institution of Terran World Minister was dissolved as was the representatives of the member states who had overall overthrown the Vanguard whose rule for decades under the Blue One met increasing disaster from the effectively apocalyptic colonial policies rolling into domestic disasters from how public sentiment on [[Earth]] by the 25th century shifted over demands to liberalize on many issues like AI, augmentation etc. yet simultaneously there was far more demands for more oversight on the activities of colonies to avoid another [[Vataland]] disaster, which while apocalyptic for the Vanguard's legitimacy in colonies who saw it as a consequence of the Vanguard's enabling of the dark forces on their prized world with disillusionment at all time high.  Of the two, the crackdowns were the one the Blue One prioritized to much popularity... on Earth.  So the Blue One established the AntiCorruption Fleet, of which was mainly used to crack down on deviant colonies and act as a universal ur-angel net of sorts despite the claims of universal updates not working out and in general being seen as too little too late for maintaining conformity.  

These autoenforcement systems would end up all over the place over the decades, amorally enforcing the universal Terran codes without regard to local context which was generally seen as the colonial's problem to deal with.  There was multiple mess ups, for one the Terran intel on colony development had distorted trajectories on where so many worlds would be at and they just did plain not have the resources for the degree of management needed.  Additionally the centralized codes while helping with keeping machine conformity did prove subversion prone, did lead to slower updating than a decentralized mesh work would.  It also just had conflict of interests on who got to build the Blue One's universal grid that had the belief it was the start of a galactic system of law enforcement with the loyalists of the Blue One getting precedent and the general purges of those who sought "dangerous" reforms to the codes in place.  Indeed a lot of information on the documented existence of alien life was avidly suppressed despite it being in general public knowledge.  

However in the high Terran echelons those who acted as if this well known aspect of the world existed they were purged from holding positions of power in the Blue One's administration which happened to also get very streamlined and automated.  Earth started to become a global surveillance state, though resistance to this around the solar system overwhelmed the systems where the depth of hatred for the Vanguard government even on earth became extremely known to the Blue One.  This system created for people on Earth an information blackout where denialism of alien life was widespread to those who are for the Vanguard, this mindset spread elsewhere in Sol to Vanguard loyalists even as they regularly interacted with Tikali and even [[Vopson]] in some sectors. 

-Operation []

The ineffective rollout of the angel net really took at toll on the Blue One, who had been so convinced it would have been a system that would last millennia yet already has failed to really change that much in the colonies.  So a different act was taken- to purge corruption on many "dissident enabling worlds" and disband any ship production they are doing.  The large scale operation did stunt some movements out but it really just suppressed some of what was bubbling beneath, especially with the peacekeeping forces acting independent of the vanguard sourcing from local worlds due to the incredibly destabilizing vopson invasion.  The Hemisperic Spring broke out in 2436 after it was by dissidents mass revealed that the Blue One had been an AGI upload of a human the time- a virtual.  The Hemispheric Spring wanted the Blue One to resign and be shut down.  They did not realize how much over the decades the Blue Cult had grown, how much people bought into the shepherd, the universal law, the galactic future that the Blue One is the living Vanguard of where lesser weaker rulers stumbled and all that propaganda.  The decapitation strikes and purging of space pirates, augmented deviants and uplifted animals on Earth was protested but such protests were repressed with re-education systems for those with defeatist memetics for those deemed against the grand purpose of galactic colonization.  Such order had opposition but the surveillance state caught millions of such people, if not billions as threats. 

**The Violence (2440-2475)**

Such repressive order proved not enough, the cult while virulent found support drop to 17% even on earth because information about the [[Vopson]] flooded in from dissidents in other parts of sol harder to enforce the totalitarian governance of sol to.  Indeed expanded the system to colonies proved even harder, as even with the purges revolutionaries flooded the comms.  The Blue One was was regarded as a tyrant, but it had the absolute possible power even as it neglected to contend with the Vopson who it saw as a secondary priority to contend with after reconsolidating the species.  But it had other issues- colonists had built up forces to fend against the Vopson and advancements in the colonies towards mind uploading happened under the watch of the enforcement systems because the servers were well hidden in underground server installations in many worlds.  There was also the Tikali contact incident, which happened in 2453 and panicked the Blue One deeply despite those on the world from underground comm networks being optimistic about the contact giving the high reputability of the species from other colonies.  The Blue One choose to destroy the emissaries and proclaimed them a secessionist plot, the Tikali were a factor outside the Blue One's control and believed they had been aiding colonists to destroy the species.  [[The Vanguard]]'s efforts purging non human intelligence was proven to be in absolute vain.  Alien intelligences were everywhere.

Still that reality was destroyed, if not in physical existence, in the media and in the records as the Vanguard purged data and anyone who talked of it despite 87% of the entire human population knowing intelligent aliens as a reality for over a century by 2460.  A constructed narrative of the aliens actually being entities used by secessionists to destabilize the Vanguard has aggressively pushed, which gained some percentage but the majority still believed.  The Vanguard contemplating mass memory purging methods in its last years, but the mass declarations of secession in the 2460's was and many local Sol groups turning on the automatic enforcement systems the Blue One had even as it massacred others.  People had lost fear of death, the fear of the Vopson outweighed fear of the Vanguard who resorted to Upload hells for those who were dissidents and even more incomprehensible acts of worse than death punishments in their pathological want of control.  But it just wasn't enough, eventually someone managed to disrupt the Blue One's systems that mass revolts overtook earth, the cultists were mobbed and executed, the Vanguard Party on Earth fragmented.  The Blue One committed suicide at that point, knowing the worse than death punishment it would have been given.  Many of the cultists also committed suicide, indeed across all human space there was a massive uptick in suicide with the collapse of the Vanguard among loyalist groups who saw just no future left.  In 2475 the Vanguard had been disbanded and humanity within a couple years went from a consolidated species to many fragmented societies.  Secessionists in some places proclaimed victory, others just were too preoccupied with the Vopson and scrambling to deal with the great disconnection that ensued as the Blue One's autoenforcers kept striking and barricading worlds deemed dissident worlds as before, enforcing the codes of a civilization that collapsed.  However  without updates from earth anymore they would become just a pestilence.

2475-2530 / Aftermath

The post collapse world was one where emergency fleets had to be rapidly built with what industry existed.  Nominally civilian ship factories had to be converted to making military ships, indeed it was the loop hole that may have saved billions of lives in the after math since they were able to make ships that cleared local systems of Vanguard autoenforcement machines while work to deal with the Vopson swarms expanded.

#human 
#historical 
#timeline 
