
In the alien society of [[Prospect Space]], there is an immigrant diaspora population that has existed since 2497 when the origin of the golden swarm led to curious explorers. Who had believed they would find the ruin of a civilization golden swarm records described as being destroyed by another invasion. The metasyndicate is where the majority reside and as the immigrated humans found that contrary to the disappointingly segregated assumptions of some other societies, prospect spacers often value having more species around. With degrees of interaction unfathomable. Early immigration was from refugee populations from the collapse of the vanguard, more recent generations are from the generations of posthumans trying to do more formal actions within prospect space of more ideological aims. Early prospect space immigrants are way more assimilated and show a contempt for the later generations due to a mix of internalized propaganda and an ignorance of how much since the 2400's has actually changed. The late 2400's was a very different world than the post plexus situation of the 2600's and the dueling deadlocked cyborg superstates of the late 2600's to present.

This may at first value sound comparable to human immigration experiences of the past. But the surface value dynamic of emigrating from disaster and cultural assimilation is missing a vast corpus of incentives which permeate the system.

For one the outlook of life value in prospect space is cheap and indiscriminate. The [[Metasyndicate]] despite being a societal structure organized by the descendants of [[Fosskemian]] made AI does integrationist actions in its own way separate from the hegemonic precedents for governing vast amounts of species set by Dozinist theologians and other such Utnaguis ideologues. The societal experiments the Metasyndicate carried out on a regular basis require more sapients to get more results, or so the harmonic outlook goes. The presence of humans is but another shell to break for the atomized system of the Metasyndicate.

The point of the Metasyndicate had been universal harmony and the brutality of universal harmony becomes clear with the endless warzone the society actually is. Or how you will most likely end up doing the bidding of incomprehensible beings with somewhat single minded motivation of entropy accelerationism propagandized as harmony. The product of creators with a need for company understood by the creation. It is not a greed based ethics system, there is no capitalism as we know it in the Metasyndicate. The agents and systems of credence are means to an end, credence is freely given out with being an agent not really getting you new credence but instance gaining you access in influencing the broader chaotic system with fancy technologies given to said agents along with having more direct interface with the composers. It sounds great, but the drawbacks begin to mount up. It is akin to having more fire, the agent get these benefits with the risk they are more likely to end up burning themselves or something able to douse their flame. A hierarchy of risk, as it has been at times known. Others may see it as a hierarchy of luck. Whatever the case, the true power is known to be with the composers however discrete they may be in their actual actions.

That is the environment humans immigrated to, some even came back to the Plexus with metasyndicate tech, which by design caused destabilization.

#essay 
#Metasyndicate 
#ProspectSpace 