
It was a silent morning.
They had never truly processed to him what exactly the scope of cosmic creation could be.  Always it was in simplifications, “galaxies are easy to colonize on astronomical timescales”. 
He felt that assuring.  After all, all laws of physics had been proven wrong by the Spinoza Constant.  Relativity was said to have been a subjective thing, but there were loopholes.  It turned out there was also another special frame that allowed for warp travel despite the once held belief warp travel meant time travel- that jumping into wormholes meant plunging into the past.  The non-sense of the special frame still baffled everyone since causality somehow just managed to hold to its own sense despite simultaneously holding to the relativistic framing  
This meant in effect, FTL.  And FTL means the galaxy is easily colonized, pump out many warp ships, colonize every star within a mere few thousand years.
Yet that didn’t happen.
[[The Sprawl]]’s existence just seemed to be absolute in invalidation.  They should not exist.  Humans should not exist.  Both somehow exist.
Looking upon the writhing roadways, spires that stretch kilometers and empty arcades, balcony-like structures and bridgeways so close helped little in that sense.  He had not known how long he had wandered the Sprawl or where he landed to begin with.  The soft, alien humming of the occasional machines without any apparent means of propulsion just hovering regardless toiling at whatever blemishes existed only made the realm feel more distant.
The machinery outlived whatever lived here, indeed the radioactivity of the whole place would have been fatal without the protections he had been afforded.  Yet even then, it is always a concern that some corridor, some basement, some aqueduct or access to the lower layers could be filled with devouring clouds left over from some catastrophe unknown.
So, he kept to the open streets, which counterintuitively were the safest just because nothing really was around.  The lack of anyone around the blank spaces became ever starker when even the machinery just seemed to vanish into the blank architecture.  Existing only as needed, then evaporating once their functions had been carried out.  As they had for what the radio dating estimates wager to have been ten thousand years.  
Which only highlighted how this was but an upper layer to the Sprawl, built above many layers below, ever further down.  Whatever is alive may subside in those depths.  Depths that he would not dare go- the surface is already a web work of impossible pathways that lead to impossible destinations.  All once inhabited, once populated.  
The estimates of how many could have lived in these worlds is of numbers impossible to give proper respect.  Each number is an individual like himself- alien sure, but something with agency still.  Something that can be counted as an individual and not merely part of the automata that keep this place maintained.  
The numbers kept processing.  The nature of the inhabitants known varied heavily, as a cosmopolitan entity as a galaxy spanning civilization would.   So any average would be rough at best, but the architecture seemingly had attuned to beings somewhat larger than humans in size- in the range of a bear perhaps.  Yet even there, with those living requirements the number of inhabitants per cubic kilometer was just absurd.  Over a million inhabitants per cubic kilometer.  The whole world was already  bigger than earth and with a volume that had artificial constructions going to the core.  That isn’t even counting the hyperspatiality of the place which may have once allowed for even higher populations and means to offload their waste instead of in the oceans of waste known to exist on some layers.   The rough estimate was 2 trillion cubic kilometers of Sprawl for this one planet.  A planet considered an average city when the Sprawl was at its zenith.
The simple math on that is to just multiply the million per cubic kilometer with the two trillion cubic kilometers.  No actual empirical work was done for those numbers, it could be a lot less or a lot more inhabitants.  More of that volume may have been used for stuff unrelated to the population.
Regardless, that would number in the quadrillions.
That would be just this one world of the Sprawl, maybe not even the biggest one.  The Sprawl is known to have activity across this entire galaxy based on secondhand knowledge.  Millions of sprawl worlds averaging with quadrillions.  
That just leads to an even more distant and meaningless number!  
Yet still, a deep dread started to creep in.
Since no one is around.  Where could that many beings have ever even been?  The bodies could not be found anywhere here.  The roadways are pristine, not lined in the bodies of intelligent creatures massacred by some ancient war.  The sprawl continued, with or without a population.

#story
#historical 
#narrative 