Early Sprawl Expeditions to the Crab Nebula were “illegally” launched in 2377 using prototype warp systems that came from latent proto-research into black hole warp engineering and a drive system that was loaned by a secret benefactor (spoiler: the rogue architect).  They went on a long expedition towards the Crab Nebula, one that took a century even with the mysterious black box tech the benefactor had granted them.  In exchange for what was not clear at the time.  The Ramos Foundation would find out. 

At the Crab Nebula… things got exceptional.

They didn’t find what the Crab Nebula had before.  They found a range of structures, one of which containing strange illrop beings, another with kavada clade sprawlers that survived an event only known in their dialects as the rupture.  It got even weirder.  The expedition was basically in custody to ancient, advanced beings who had almost anticipated something like them would arrive.  It didn’t seem possible, unless they had observers thousands of light years around them.  They did.  The Kavadans were scavengers who survived the hyper nova catastrophe which happened at the region, the pulsar itself converted by local automata to a power source used to repair the complexes in the area.  They seemingly lacked wormholes to other sprawl areas and had seemed to be pending for some other command from another sprawl cluster.  The expedition with their advancement, mere centuries of space travel, only 500 years since industrial society- was seeing but a tiny bit, a village of a civilization far ahead of humanity.  So absurdly far ahead it didn’t make sense to them why they let us exist.  They just were seemingly indifferent, letting the expedition arrive because they saw it like an animal that was curious at worst.  Something they easily lured away from anything dangerous and baited with ancient knowledge- what they knew some expedition would want.  It is evident humans were not the first beings here.  The crab expedition would come to learn of a brief vopson incursion in the area and some other strange being not sprawl in origin that stopped by two millennia ago.  Whatever that being was.  The Kavadans in the area abducting the expedition crew, scanning and experimenting on them in incomprehensible ways.  Than once they deduced the linguistics, revealed 5 things.

1. genomes for ice age era earth life.  Implicitly confirming the sprawl had gathered life data from earth in prehistoric times.  They even cloned an glyptodon to show just how comprehensive the prehistoric data was.

2. The supernova was indeed artificial but was not from a war.  It was from a Freak accident that unintentionally saved them from the nanite plagues, which compromised a far smaller amount of worlds than they otherwise would have.  They destroyed all remaining wormholes due to this.

3. They had probes sent to each even after the rupture, but they were mostly observational and stopped around 670 BC but did conclude humans had a chance to be space faring.  They also had probes around long step for a time.  They didn’t disclose if they did any additional interference.

4. They didn’t intervene to uplift or dawnbreak humanity because their policy was to wait until a species was advanced enough because of some rather disturbing outlooks.  As in, they believed appreciation of the sprawl would be impossible without first suffering the realities of existence without the sprawl.  That they would not understand the value the sprawl could offer until they saw how capricious and cruel the cosmic void of existence truly was.  Post rupture they had struggled more to keep that island of civilization in the abyss prospering and took to a policy of “letting them come to us” as they were just that confident in their technological advantages over what they saw as primitive societies that arose in the void.  This evidently was a policy that was just the standard for post-rupture sprawl societies, as none of the fragments were in a position to be expansionist to the void.  Doing so would be pointless to them, reclaiming ancient sprawl worlds is just much more important than the wild space as far as they are concerned.

5. They operate on slower timelines compared to us, evidently they are so unable to break with the pressures put on them slow thinking and slower minds are what the Sprawl societies of the Kavadams had due to constant need to repair, scavenge and fix the galactic civilization. 

The conflict that emerged was that the expedition wanted sprawl technology, not just this data.  The Kavadans saw a way to get a tribute or scion.  But they found themselves at an impasse as the rogue architect turned out to have a contingency ancilla on their black box tech in the case they got to a sprawl world.  The rogue architect wanted them to get out as soon as they can.  They learned the Kavadans were experimenting on them the whole time, trying to get at the benefactor’s drive system and that forced the rogue architect’s ancilla to action to defend itself from their intrusions.  They had to escape the experiments, but it may have been too late.  The already had made mind clones of the human crew, to do whatever they wanted with in secret while giving their “wisdom”.  The ancilla however resisted such stuff and that caused a crisis to break out as they had to make a jump out of there without being intercepted by sentinel entities in the area as it became clear the kavadans had an offer they could not refuse.  A seemingly Impossible situation emerged as panic on what to do broke out, many just horrified by the implications of copied minds of themselves being in the hands of decadent ancient aliens.  Still what happened was pretty remarkable, they managed to simply state they was moving a little to a set position and the sentinels let them.  As they did this the xenodiplomat on the crew acted like they wanted to do the deal only to see the kavadan angry at them, it caught them in a lie because of the mind copy they had of the xenodiplomat saying they were lying.  They indoctrinated the copy that fast somehow.  What had been going on for millennia here?  They didn’t want to know further but the anger of the kavadan led to it to irrationally rant about many crazy utopian delusions that they have denied themselves for daring to deceive a superior civilization and in that moment the ancilla warped them out, having been positioned in time to do so.  They fled thousands of light years and took many faulty routes, paranoid of the kavadans hunting them across countless stars.  They got back around 2590 AD, to a radically different home.  They knew it wouldn’t be the same at home at all.  Two centuries is a lot of time for things to change.  But still they were in shock the vanguard fell the way it did and the vanguard loyalist lost their bet.  They would find out that alien contact with multiple civs had been normalized.  The ancilla would find that the custodians had managed to find and destroy their main core among many other parts, leaving the ancilla like the sprawl- a mere fragment.  The crew of the ship felt weirdly betrayed by the ancilla, as if it had any control of what happened at home.  But alas with the benefactor dead and the crew in regret and dread for not taking the kavadan offer, they destroyed the ancilla too than went into hiding in the virtual net as virtual minds with their original bodies abandoned.  All just to avoid the kavadans and what else may be out there.  They did express their expedition to the virtual authorities, only to find they already knew all that stuff about the sprawl.  They were just allowed to resume their lives, but a couple chose to continue the pursuit of sprawl knowledge regardless of their failure to bring any new knowledge despite the long, tedious expedition they went through and barely survived.

#outdated 
#story 