Symbionts and parasites faster about the neglected back ways of [[Ivikurmaja]], typical life on the asteroid city. A destitute creature, of unknown species lays in the ally ways just covered in parasites barely able to move around. Grumbling incoherent urzinian dialects as it shambles about the dimly light ultraviolet ally. A chilling cold flow permeates across the place, be it from the volatiles the city is built upon or simply the coolant at play in this moment of time.

Either way, the frigidity is tempered by the heat of the host. The large 4 armed crawlers, long arm-like creatures with hand maws, spindly critters flying with their legs and nesting their polyps on the shambling mess. It limps its way around the obelisks and spiny alley ways seeking whatever it can, it has too many bodies to sustain, but it remains ravenous still. A glimpse into the vast city scapes above, between the micro-planes and transits or the vast networks of magnetic roads in their countless directions intracite and shifting, tracks to places much better than the alley way. How an existence so destitute can even persist into an era of such wonders it can't even process, for it can't even process much at all.

Other beings in the alley way are hardly friendly to it- even those who pity the shambler known better than to feed something as irreversibly compromised by the giant parasites in these dark crevices. Instead one of the occupants, a large flipper winged creature with thin, spindly limbs welding some electricity generating personal weapon with deep contempt starts threatening it. The threat barely holds it away, the fear over taken by the mindless hunger. So instead the husk lunges at the occupant and the occupant fries the husk, some of the parasites rapidly hopping off the host, others too entrenched to escape. The shock of the electricity causes the shells on a couple of them to burst, while the boiling alien blood leaks from the collapsed husk in a ghoulish aroma. One that attracts other creatures hiding in deeper crevices still. Tiny critters whose skittering sends the occupant back into hiding while the skittering critters feast, mate and fight on the remains.

The abandoned ecologies are awash with such sights, making travels through places such as the depths of Ivikurmaja dangerous prepositions without good power suits. Even a handheld zapper like the occupant had, barely suffices for it and they know where to hide.