
From the perspective of human researchers

Subject; Them

You know what I mean. Them. They, whose swarms assaulted us. The history of researching the alien civilization that dwells not so far from us in the grand scheme of things is a long, sordid one. You know the sprawl, how we had managed to gain insights into the broader galaxy through the expeditions to the Sprawl world of [[Gilizet]]? We had thought we learned quite a bit of the "Vopson" as our lexicon defined them from there. They were fleeing a civilization exterminated by the [[Custodians]]. That was where the records from Gilizet stopped.

We had been painted a profound tragedy. There was a dominion, the [[Vusidian Dominion]] to be accurate. They had sought to uplift and spread life in the galaxy. They were a driven kind, aspiring to a form of symbiosis based enlightenment I couldn't detail the tenets of from what I was shown in the emulated records. They were a vast civilization, not to the magnitudes the sprawl but still- a civilization that had been around so long they were space faring before the birth of our industrial civilization.

And they had created a vortex of life. Spreading out from a seed, interstellar ecosystems were created in a colonization strategy so vital and lively the colonists would settle already made artificial seeds, complete with atmosphere and life. They repeated that across thousands if not millions of star systems.

Than, the custodians would attack them. They hated the life. They hated it so much that we for so long thought their civilization but empty rubble, an ash heap. And so the dread of custodians persists to this day, unknowing if they silently will judge us for extermination just as they did them. We came to pity the [[Vopson]], they were fleeing extermination. And they attacked us because their swarm pathology caused them to descend into madness. They saw us as somehow connected to the custodian exterminations- that our existence had to be punished just as theirs was. We had to respond accordingly, in self defense and horror at this sick, broken minds that became monsters for all intents and purposes.

We have gained new data ever since. It turns out, they survived. They fucking survived. What to make of this development, im not sure.

-Klein

-------

Subject; Golden Swarm

Keep it away.

What can be said of the golden swarm. When it first incurred itself to human space it was assumed a fiction, so absurd their existence it was taken as such by the inner colonies and earth. It had been orthodoxy that alien life would either be primitive or too advanced to matter. The sprawl being an example of the latter. But reality proved stranger than we ever could have reasonably believed. There was others. In retrospect it makes sense given how life developed in large chronologically dense waves in the wake of the protolife eons, but we didn't have that data at the time. They didn't have any logical reason to exist. So when the colony of Klein-5 encountered them, it was something the colonists had no reference to. They had just been a standard template colony, only 40 years of development. No specialties. Only various lava tube settlements and a central World ship turned O'Neil cylinder. They had done mining operations on some of the moons, but the population had hesitated to settle the local ecosystem. Not much is known individually beyond the ambassador they sent out when they realized the UFOs in their system may be of alien origin.

Klein the Lesser had dreaded it to be some raider group, the autoenforcers sent to the system however didn't seem to pick them up. So this was something unknown to the system entirely. Klein the Lesser sent out a consort of his, Sal. Sal would be the one to see the visitors face to face. She had no idea what to expect of them, they had used asteroids converted into sulfuric rainbows of color. It had no coherent resemblance to any human society or design at all. These beings were truly alien. The diplomatic shuttle didn't even try to dock, if there even was a way. The sulfuric asteroid vessel at that point sent out a capsule of sorts, one that came into contact with the diplomatic shuttle. A probe was sent to the capsule, the incompatible atmospheres was immediately evident. They let the probe in. And In the capsule, the probe saw them. They were numerous, almost batlike entities. Without heads, instead a long retractable "neck" and mouth that was initially mistaken for a head. Their eyes being at the front of their bodies changed that understanding as did seeing some retract those necks. 

Their long, raptor legs and wings made them almost an avian species. The corrosive properties of the atmosphere they inhabited did hamper the probe to an extent, but it proved durable enough for the conditions it was being exposed to. This exploration continued, as the beings studied the probe and than did something unexpected. They sent one of their own to Sal's shuttle, one in a rubbery suit to protect itself from our atmosphere. They didn't send a probe. It was like they were the probe in the minds of their kind. That individual, termed "Cles" would be the first vopson to encounter a human face to face. It turns out the vopson weren't big. They were around 3 feet from head to tail. Cles was no exception. Cles had difficulty adjusting to the larger size of the humans and the different density of atmosphere at first, but gained a composure. Enough composure to utter a phrase that would haunt humanity for the next century.

"Your existence is the crime."

At that point Sal's shuttle tried to retreat, the vopson Cles had stuck with them. The asteroid vessel proceeded to than change trajectory towards the main world ship of the colony. Defensive frigates were scrambled, but they lacked the capacity to fight this off. The asteroid vessel sent out scrambling waves of incoherent noise, much of which just incoherent hateful sparch as they made use of sulfur tinted beams to destroy the frigates. It had rapidly become a massacre. All Sal could do was watch. Cles and its presence was the only reason they didn't destroy the shuttle too. The violence was protracted- a days long conflict were one was only waiting to know if they had died. A long drift by the asteroid towards a world ship that was throwing all it could at the asteroid, which sent out its interceptors to stop any attempt at penetrating it.

Cles proved to be less happy with the result that anticipated. It couldn't understand why humans resisted this. Did they think they are deserving?? Whatever the case, Cles had proven withdrawn from the invasion. Their limited purposes was already fulfilled. Cles has managed to break the world. All that was left was to see what spills from it. The world ship would than be shot at, destroyed. Other vopson groups were sent out to eradicate the lava tube colonies using chemical warfare methods where gaseous super acids were drenched down upon them. Just a genocide on the whole. Sal had strangled Cles over this, but Cles saw their efforts as futile- only pointing out Cles dying means Sal dies just like the rest.

But this is where Sal was defiant. Sal took the shuttle and started to navigate to a warp friendly distance, taking Cles with her. The shuttle abducted the Vopson unwittingly, and the vopson detachments sent struggled to reach the shuttle in time as the shuttle kept accelerating. Eventually Sal did a risky warp at 10% the speed of light to a nearby star system. Cles had limits on their supplies, they tried to make some improve sulfur for Cles to breathe but it had its limits. Cles was cut off from the swarm with the warp and the way Cles started to behave was strangely reflective.

The shuttle was in another outer system, one the UFOs hadn't reached... yet. The impression Sal had from the brief contact was they were just beginning a broader assault on the colonies, the shuttle took a way longer than operationally viable jump as is. The locals apprehended Sal, only not imprisoning her due to her status as an ambassador and having no idea what to make of Cles. They had factories with a sulfur production that made a crude form of solution, not what Cles was attuned to despite attempts to mimic the suit solution but still enough to keep Cles from going under (Cles would however slowly starve despite the rations). The local system authority, led by Flint was informed of the events by Sal and defenses were mobilized.

In the interim Cles revealed more of its kind, just out of a desperate desire to speak at something without the flock around. Cles revealed talk of an ancient empire they had abandoned, their desire to go to the galactic core, how humanity by existing destroyed this dream- how humanity reminded them all too much of their former overlords. In their minds, they were trying to preempt a repeat of what they saw happen in the "old order", that being the Vusidian Dominion- by destroying us before we atrophy just as the old dominion did. We are a crime of existence, they saw patterns of history with us that disturbed them, patterns of existence in human archives they found on us that made them dread what we may become. That our existence was that way deeply upset the swarm, that Klein-5 was not the first system they contacted, they had sent out researchers and infiltrators a decade prior and what they learned of us horrified them. They came to find our existence an upset of cosmic proportions, imagining ever more inane ideas of what we would come to represent and so it had to be wrecked, tortured, brutalized until it had none of the essence or soul left. Mass violence was about to descend on humanity, a hatred of humanity built on a pathology their swarms kept spewing and consuming, over and over again. This war is a preemptive strike in practical terms- and also an assault on what humanity to them represented. The madness of the swarm was without end at this point.

Cles had detached from that madness and was already showing confusion as to where that hatred even came from, but this would be a temporary arrangement- if the swarm interacted with Cles again Cles would hold the swarm mentality once more. Cles had no agency in the matter beyond avoidance, if Cles even currently sought it. Sal had no reason to trust it. Not a single one, so Cles would be kept as isolated from other Vopson as possible with what knowledge of flock mindedness exists.

And The need to tell everyone was far greater than anyone ever anticipated. But the local colony found an issue- they tried to send signals out. Multiple times. The relay ships didn't return. This would go on for over a month, Cles running through its rations, Sal's research on Cles being one that created some bond but it was one of diplomatic cause. Sal had no faith in Cles. How could she, given what the Vopson are?

Still the realization of it all would prove important. Too important.

----

Subject; Golden Swarm

The golden swarm's contact at Klein-5 proved hostile. But [[The Vanguard]] denied it, claiming it secessionist ploys and using their systems of propaganda to suppress information. In truth they wanted to use the swarm to wipe out the secessionists, but had kept a dogmatic loyalist core who believed the aliens a fictional entity made up by secessionist to scare loyalists. Or a tall tale they told each other. The golden swarm had made further incursions as a result, but the collapsing legitimacy of the vanguard proved especially bad in this regard. Humans could handle the vopson, despite the tech gaps, but the chaos of internal struggles proved much. The irony the swarm was defeated long after the vanguard, by a coalition of technobarbarian fighters who had been witness to the atrocities of the golden swarm, in a struggle against beings who have only hatred for our existence. Their reasoning stopped even being coherent- it was at first, a judgement, a projection of their original societies. It mutated to wanting us dead for the sake of wanting us dead. That our existence had to be burnt away, they acidified worlds, they boiled arcologies, all because they saw us becoming something more. That was it.

Humans had by this point fallen, the vanguard's collapse was a sudden, traumatic one. Overnight, the autoenforcers went offline. Overnight, the blue one had been over thrown. And with it, what tenuous hold the vanguard held over the colonies it so terrorized. The speed it collapsed shocked even its enemies, who had anticipated a long protracted secession conflict as they were prepared for with the vopson complicating matters all the more. The peacekeepers that went rogue on the vanguard in the 2430's caused a civil war to break out as is, just 45 years after the [[Vataland]] catastrophe. The conflicts and resistance against the augmentation codes since the 2300's were one of the various concerns, along with the infighting of the 2200's that led to a brief factional war on earth where the unitary character of the modern vanguard emerged. It became clear sub factions within earth itself had lost interest in the broader colonial efforts, with a lot of people who only valued the Terran life as it were. However the broader elite still was one of interstellar expansion and the project of the human galaxy. They had believed the sprawl was not going to stop them, that there was nothing else. That life kept appearing more often and the recovered sprawl archives from Gilizer in the 2300's alluded to other likely "emergence" candidates around the galaxy. The work of these colonial xenoarcheologists would prove crucial to understanding the reality of the galaxy. The revelations found haunted them, a mental health crisis in the community broke out from the gilizet AI they recovered as is.

But yeah

Custodians are a distant force in this iteration, the civilizations around them basically irrelevant. Prospect Spacers are pretty much the most vital and active entity humans know. [[The Sprawl]] is insular, meanwhile.

This is where it is important to understand the reality of these beings. For you see, centuries of information about prospect spacers was missing from the record. They were as far as we thought, destroyed by the custodians, the golden swarm but a decaying echo from their civilization's destruction. Prospect Spacer tech already was more advanced than anything humans had seen at the time, the bio weaponry of the golden swarm was a horror show beyond what was known possible with Biosynthetics. The vopson vessels were able to destroy dozens of human ships for every ship of theirs lost- their weaknesses were not in their tech but brittle organization and lack of industrial capacity so their losses hit harder despite being a swarm mind. That is why the golden swarm ultimately would fall, they engaged in a war they had no rational way of sustaining against an opponent who while technologically outmatched still had many industrial, population and logistical edges. Additionally sprawl black box tech was at times leveraged to strategic excellence in later stages of the conflict. That being said the swarm's legacy was one of billions dead and the accelerating of humans to a posthuman state as backup upload minds were activated to escape the suffering the bioweaponry and chemical warfare the golden swarm inflicted. The swarm did attack data centers too, but relay ships and data ships managed to evade the swarm enough to allow for enough industrial survival as massive machine factories and outputs were developed- historically massive machine automata fleets were deployed in the 2500's despite the collapse of the vanguard and those fleets would be consolidated to the virtue coalition who went on a conquering spree of their own, bolstered by their grit and endurance against the swarm many joined the coalition willingly. The Greater Systems Assembly didn't incur the wrath of the golden swarm to this degree, but they still ended up fighting them due to the Golden Swarm spreading into their territory during the Consortium-Regnant war and the later revolt on Regnant that formed the Greater Systems Assembly as an alliance of world states, peacekeepers and virtuals fleeing the swarm. However as the golden swarm as an issue was defeated by admiral Yao in the 2560's the Greater Systems Assembly became far more occupied with the problem of the Virtue Coalition who they saw as a corrupted humanity to contain at all costs, with the deadlock incident in 2630 establishing the vast neutral zone that persisted to the present. The plexus arose in this mess as well, as an emergent phenomena of networked virtual servers and countless automated relay ships from the mass production systems. It is no shock that human space has billions of spaceships by 2800, with trillions of people and trillions more who are virtual.

#MetaDisputed 
#historical 
#human 
#vopson 
#story 