In the vision of cosmic decadence we have created an eternity of impossible beings across the outer fume with which our presence graces the realm. We integrate them as they arise to the eternal union we have amassed. The cycles of time we have gone to achieve this, uncountable. We have known of the 2813 beings charted as future subjects of our grand system that has become the true ecumenical of the beings who build. We have created a life for endless multitudes of beings who live lives even the highest ones of prior eras could only fantasize of in the depths of their regressive simulacra. We made it in the material realm, all of it. We broke reality itself, we converted reality into our simulacra, instead of converting our reality into simulacra. Conversing with billions at once, of lives so vast and interconnected across millions of worlds in but a small part of the millennia of galactic civilization that will ebb and flow as always- but the light always is there.

[-Archival fragment from the Dioviermes entity "Hikulin", dated to 13574 BC.]

The glow, it remains. So many I have watched fall to despair. The trauma is felt everywhere. It is impossible to avoid. I knew millions. All but three survived the annihilations, the wars, the tempests of nanite wars which swept through so many worlds, the machine cancer.... the ancient codes that held the systems together had been mostly lost. The tools of civilization, they have continued to do their service. For that I remain grateful and have despite my prior hubris, and present isolation, found solace in. They don't talk of much, they are a focused kind. But they still can be reasoned with once you make an effort to understand the protocol and mindset they were indoctrinated to. The world of Karbana [[Kinnis]] has remained intact as have many others. The millennia of wandering has come to an end, but the society that now takes the place of that ancient world and all those who are but repressed memories... that is never returning. It can't return, no matter what we may will or wish, the copies of those lost too remain like the worlds around us, fragments. The kind of interstellar systems needed to produce even a fraction of the deeper recursions and reality altering volumes just are not possible, gravity drive technology has been figured out once more with the factions that have finally broken from their black box dependencies but the incentives remain on recolonizing and reconsolidating these worlds... a hopeless task, but one preferable to dealing with that empty outside void. The ecumenical remains suited for us, the void is not. Beings out there will come to us, we expect it of them. Those that seek to destroy us, the Sibun will ensure their oblivion. Pettier forces will fall to the upper layers. We shall do as we have done, weaving ever so slowly back, the fabric of the ecumenical into whatever new shape it must. Even if we are no longer bright, it cannot be denied we still glow. They see us, we have seen them.

[-Archival fragment from the Dioviermes entity "Hikulin", dated to 100 AD.]

#[[Diovierme]]
#Sprawl 
#narrative 
