It was the year 2043 when the Deep Electromagnetic Nova Neutrino Infrared Survey or DENNIS discovered that the [[Crab Nebula]] had some strange signals emitting from it, they weren't beacons but they did suggest something speaking... not to us, they just were. The wave of signals just kept expanding as the galaxy became just a place surrounded by distant galactic civilization... all around us. Signals everywhere, the chatter of a civilization that seemed to play out its history the further back in time one looked with better telescopes developed after revealing a cross section of something that had become known numbingly as the sprawl. A galactic sprawl.

Speculation as to their nature ran rampant. They didn't kill us, that much was known. They hadn't colonized sol, that much was known.

They had however been spacefaring for forty millennia at least. Or so the time surveys of the 2100's seemed to suggest.

The prospect of going to the Crab Nebula had been brought up, which at first was a deranged belief but the discovery of special framing principles by [[Spinoza Whitgel]] and the experiments world president Igwe commissioned to much criticism allowed to pass on warp travel would lead to the first use of warp systems and the range of scandals which followed in later decades from corrupt deals and the following rise of the Vanguard. [[The Vanguard]]'s takeover had been predicated on the unified expansion of humans to other star systems using the warp drives, of which were still extremely new at the time but the risks were seen as worth the trouble even as early iterations had problems from a lack of complete understanding their constraints/rules. Be it the Epsilion Eridani Colony ship's failure to make it to their destination with the power they had for their massive warp drive system (which led to them being stranded in interstellar space) or simply overshooting momentum from the warp bubble's ejection upon nearing a gravity well into their target planet. The Pavonis Incident may well have destroyed an earth like world if said world wasn't mostly desert and bacteria to begin with. Such colony ship disasters did eventually lead to wavering Vanguard support, but the Vanguard managed to lead coalition governments even with oversight compromises that the Vanguard activist branch saw as treachery. Said branch would eventually takeover the party by the early 2200's to make expansion and purity of the human identity the two main prerogatives of vanguard governance. They were by this point able to erode democratic institutions on earth to avoid being stuck in coalition governments, which caused the Hemispheric Revolt in 2261 that was brutally crushed and generally viewed as when authoritarian vanguardism really set in. Those revolts were mostly unnoticed off world but it did start the shift towards a formal party state with intra-vanguard elections dominating from that point onwards. The factions in the Vanguard had disputed on how much augmentation and expansion could be allowed, discourse was forced to this narrow scope even with inner colonies concerned with a wide range of other local problems like colonial government corruption or where it is acceptable to build cylinder worlds like that of Equinox in sol itself.

[[The Sprawl]] problem was very much on the minds of the terrans, not the mega city sprawls on earth but the galactic sprawl transmissions that just had been overwhelming and total in Scope. They just were invalidating to those on earth. It had been the goal of the vanguard to colonize the galaxy, but dissenters kept pointing the sprawl out. They kept claiming humans had no power in the galaxy, that galactic colonization is not possible. The galaxy had already been partially colonized before. By beings a hundred millennia ahead of humans. What were humans to them? What were chimpanzees to humans? Or an anthill?

Distressing and disturbed thoughts of such nature would lead to the greatest disinformation campaign of all time. In 2307 the vanguard basically declared war on reality itself. They actively promoted sprawl denialism, shifted to the narrative aliens didn't exist and actively presented those who kept searching. They shut down countless faculties, at times shooting space telescopes down with missiles at colony worlds that refused to comply. They had also began to further tighten the augmentation codes in reaction to the way the colonies had just kept flaunting them, indeed the Vanguard's sovereignty was rendered logistically ineffective to the point tikali contact still happened. As did continued exploration of the sprawl's existence, however much such records would be destroyed if found just as they did virtualized people or uplifted animals. Refuge against such persecution was found in the depths of large, populated worlds as much as it was the outer colonies.

#story 
#outdated 
#Sprawl 
#plexus 
#Tikali 