The Machine at that point starts to get a bit excited at hearing your interest to work here and begins to energetically say to you, "The opportunity range Va77 has for a species like you is wide ranging.  See, [[Akyamas]] is still recovering from some incidents from prior decades so there is lots of infrastructure to design.  For there's districts in this sector that could need human input going forward seeing the recent human activity in this part of the galaxy.  Certainly had to be a mess where you've came from to want to be here.  Va77 has a lot of other work if you do not get squeamish, as in the leviathan of [[Prospect Space]] one is always trying to make better adaptations to the ecologies that intersect.  Maybe you are the type who came here for the vast audience the mediascape can reach?  Performing for a wide range of beings is in the possibility Space.  Could help with improving linguistics, many informal gaps exist in the collection of human scripts we go by.  If you are one to play risky, there is low level mercenary work to deal with the [[Lasuuko]] infestations that plague parts of this district.  It is more like pest extermination but still.  Than there is being an agent, but I would not recommend starting as an agent."

*"What do you mean you found this world?  This world was not lost at any point in the past few centuries.  In all possibilities, Next cycle around Akyamas Prime there will be a path to get a linguistics position." the machine replies before you feel like something grazed you.  Than the machine replies, "For now I can detect you don't eat batteries like a couple other humans I know.  Do you have any metabolic needs?  This district has some food places your biochemistry can handle."*

*The Machine just gets you to a food place to see what they have.  The food place has some of the same species you saw out there, but in a more casual environment.  You are seated at a table with one of them, the machine wanted you to get used to the more common inhabitants.  You have maybe seen what could be a human but they were like, full on cyborg.  Otherwise the alien you are seated with is quite tall with a beak/attennae.  It is holding utensils with prehensile feet while its large flippers are hoisting itself up.  The alien sees you with its triangular eyes and excitedly says, "Oh look human!  I wondered what they looked like without the layers of metallic carapace, this is a great place to be it's Yikun's Edibles.  I recommend the [[Torvald]] Egg scraps.  They almost are as good as our own.  Oh right you have no idea what I am do you?  Well I'm Sorkor the [[Fosskemian]] and my kind are everywhere.  As are these other denizens called [[Utanguis]] you seen them around they're pretty big with their slithering arms.  Fun fact, they're actually like three different species but they see themselves as one individual.  Confusing isn't that?  I'm more like you, one body and one mind.  More straightforward that way!  Maybe you want to try something the [[Utanguis]] eat?  They share enough but I can't say there won't be gastric issues with the bugs that crawl from

The floral tubes they like raw.  Crunchy stuff if they cook it right.  Consider the menu some more yourself but I'm not sure the translator works well for that yet."*

#narrative 
#MetaDisputed 
#Metasyndicate 
#human 
#Fosskemian 