
**The Silent Pact encounter in 2734**

The [[Silent Pact]] struck against prospect spacers mercs mainly in the midnight war, matching their tech.  The prospect space mercs who survived altercations with Silent Pact assault crafts had described them as "advanced in ways that reminded them of the custodians"- indeed they had mistaken them as a custodian drone initially until further readings showed the UFO (to them) as non-custodian in origin but having a weirdly similar paradigm to other civic spacecraft... but mutated and advanced far ahead what prospect spacers expected.  They didn't expect antiparticle weaponry from civic ships for another couple centuries let alone the  absurdly strange quasi-hyperspatiality they had or their missile systems that somehow were able to triangulate explosions with warp missiles even in gravity wells.  The ships managed to destroy a couple of them in an ambush by somehow detonating missiles within ships.  They did so with precision that implied AGI fighters.  Nothing unfamiliar to prospect spacers but it caught them off guard to deal with someone who managed to somehow do this within a gravity well.  

The mercs managed to still destroy one... only to find the ship somehow stopped debris in death.  Imploding itself into an antimatter explosion that was blindingly bright and left but oblivion in its wake- depriving anyone that destroyed it of any salvage.  Another merc tried to communicate, but this just led to them somehow hacking their vessel with subterfuge AIs.  They bought those from prospect space somehow.   The mercs countered it, but it was long enough the remaining vessels retreated.  

In recent times, those prospect spacer mercs came into a skirmish with the Silent Pact without being aware of what a Silent Pact was.  They had instead believed it some special task force from the VC to assassinate Assembly mercs.  But the VC doctrine against mercs was to have their fleets focus on them with overwhelming numbers, not send specialists in... that was a Assembly operation against VC mercs.  It didn't make sense.  What the hell else could have done this?  They weren't custodians, that much was sure.  If it were custodians after all, they'd have been wiped out.  The custodians seemed weirdly lenient on the whole, watching them constantly but never acting.  ([[Custodians]] wanted to see prospect space-plexus interactions before doing anything as they suspected Silent Pact activity).  The Silent Pact doing a hit and run at all was only when they had believed they could without custodian intervention.  The Silent Pact wanted the Plexus to stay independent of prospect space and knew the mercs a vector for not only composers but also the other leviathan empires like the mediators and urzine domain.  Yet they had to all act in strange ways to not trip up the custodians. 

Indeed the 2700's made it clear the Plexus was doomed to be intertwined in a larger galactic situation than they ever could hope for.  [[The Sprawl]] wormholes to Karbana [[Kinnis]] alone made it impossible.  USO activities had been common in the 2600's and known to be custodians, Archivers, the Silent Pact and prospect spacers by the 2700's.  This added a stress to the two main human civilizations, who had already ongoing tensions and disputes on the future for humanity and the direction to go.  They didn't need these alien forces ripping the scales.  Mind the Silent Pact wasn't alien, but it was alien to a lot of people out of the loop as to their nature.  Many in the Plexus would know, fronting against custodians at times even. 

The tech the civics had was insane, indeed for a newer civilization they had advanced rapidly.  Prospect spacers charted it to never having a cobalt stagnation or dominion hegemony for any longer than a few centuries and the presence of two independent civilizations that went space faring so close to each other.  But there was more going on than that.  There had to be.  So there were mediator investigators bankrolled with credence to look into the whole matter.  A detective Utanguis by the name of Serta Tiyufsun was brought in to do a mixture of archeology and detective work on the mystery of the UFOs that attacked their ships in civic space.  The detective kept to public areas for the most part, as they ran into a very immediate issue.  An Utanguis really sticks out in human societies!  Serra's own mindset was one of feeling like they have spent 10 years going through the [[Ikka]] warp gate in a classified sector and took care, as the USO entities could know its intentions as more than just some prospect space tourist or merchant which they didn't seem to attack the way they attacked those mercs.  But an analysis utanguis seeking the origins of the USOs... that would be something they would target. 

It was in that work that a major red flag stuck out to Serta in their explorations of civic history.  The disappearance of the Ramos foundation.  It was so painfully obvious something happened there.  The problem was getting there.  The way so much of the behavior of the civic radiated from that in how secretive the civic can be fascinated Serta- Prospect Spacers openly defied the custodians and continued to.  These civics tried to avoid their wrath.  No one knows what trips the custodians up.  But the work at the vast database archives of Kusneto Prime and their holographic libraries continued.  And aroused unwanted attention from the locals.  One of which was another prospect space species member- some [[Whandl]] that managed to immigrant and integrate to civics.  A very cybernetic whandl, with folding parts and whatnot.  But that whandl was named Jilla Kirstu.  A weird appropriation of a human name if Serta ever saw one! 

Jilla Kirstu had known of this as she took interest in the presence of a prospect spacer.  Jilla tried to convince Serta to defect.  Serta refused.  Jilla still stuck around and basically warned Serta that they wouldn't last by being at kusneto prime and they have already attracted unwanted attention just by being here.  "They always watch" Jilla notes, before than questioning why Serta wants to know.  And what they hope to achieve, given that simply knowing them threatens their existence to the custodians.  That gave Serta more insight than Jilla realized, as Serta had been already connecting the dots between the research a being known as Insarma had done at the Ramos foundation and the disappearance being from a custodian attack.  So obvious.  The Ramos entities feared the custodians because they survived that attack.  But what didn't make sense was why the custodians failed to kill them all.  Why the Custodians were so terrified of the research that foundation did?  The work continued.  Maybe it could be something that could harm the custodians.  The Ramos entities were limited, but the industry of prospect space with that tech could defeat them... or so Serta hoped.  But Serta had to know something the Ramos entities absolutely would kill Serta over.

Serta would leave, but stick to warp relays.  The Ramos foundation space was in the depths of a quarantined sector.  A radius of 50 ly around that one system.  And knowing custodians, Serta saw it as in vain. So what else was here that made the VC do this?  The Virtues proved less friendly than the Assembly clients, or even autonomous VC clients like Kusneto Prime.  The neural tribe Serta was in contact with that showed some sympathy, the Jungs, had basically said that if they think they won't attack Serta just because Serta has human escorts, than Serta is even more oblivious to the machinations of the civic than the usual prospect spacer.  But still they had a similar interest with what is in that quarantined sector.  It was at that point it turned out Jilla had hid in Serta's spaceship.  Somehow hiding herself as part of the luggage.  She waited until the Jungs, Serta and Jilla were in the ship en route to the quarantined sector.  A neural tribe, an utanguis detective and a cybernetic whandl go to a quarantined sector.  What happens?

Well, Serta learns why they accompanied it.  The Jungs wanted to die.  They saw going to the sector as the best way.  Jilla turned out to actually know of the Silent Pact the whole time.  And was that unwanted attention she warned about.  Serta already signed their own death warrant.  En route, Serta learned this.  Jilla revealed there is no truth to the Silent Pact.  That the Silent Pact witnessed mass death firsthand, living with that trauma. A trauma that prospect spacers never truly handled properly- worshipping entropy instead of doing what the Silent Pact chose to do. 

Revenge.  Serta tried to proclaim they sought the same thing.  Jilla said that was non sense, and that Serta like so many prospect spacers sent to the Plexus were but pawns for the composer agenda of entropy, chaos and horror that the Plexus has been cured of thanks to the Silent Pact and that the Silent Pact sought to keep them from tainting this part of the galaxy.  Serta was working for the composers without realizing it.  The Jung's just laughed collectively as they approached the system where their doom awaited.

It turned out they didn't kill Serta on the spot.  Instead the Pact's specialized vessels were in stationary seeming velocity matched trajectories, awaiting silently and discretely.  Not at the core foundation system but one in that sector.  It was too much a liability to be at the actual core Star where a custodian was always stationed.  It was there Serta finally got what it came for- communication with the Silent Pact.  It had it the whole time with Jilla.  Even the Jungs were in on it.  They were sleepers.  The silent agent that was there referred to itself as Makava the Third. An Ikirmite sounding name... but the form is so clearly human.  Makava looked at Serta with disgust.  How dare they, Serta thought.  Looking upon an Utanguis with disgust?  They are very uppity.  Serta spoke out to remind Makava killing them will only make their existence harder and the Mediator Gestalt's bureaucrats would know of the disappearance of an investigator.  "We expect it." Makava replied. 

They had intended to use Serta as a hostage.  Serta couldn't help but demand to know why they would stalk them.  Calso noted they already knew of the Ikka gateway and had realized Serta's intentions by the time it was snooping around [[Kusneto_Prime]].  "Information travels faster for us than it does for you.  Far faster.  Our drives compete against the custodians.  Your shoddy warp systems are an embarrassment for an civilization supposedly ahead of our own.  The composers gave their pet detective garbage, what an insult to us.  They should have known we'd catch notice of such intrusion.  Did they not realize we patrol their jump gates?  Did they not?"

The poor resources Serta was given the whole time now come to roast.  Serta had demanded the gravity drives the highest ranking mediators had but this was denied and viewed as "too high profile"- as if sending an utanguis to a place lacking in utanguis would somehow be lower profile.  But at least the silents had use for it.

But than another ship warped in- not a custodian but something else entirely.  A composer delegate.  Here.

Than it all made sense.  Serta was but bait to force a meeting with the composers themselves.

The composer managed to invoke something within Serta.  It took control of Serta.  Serta too, was a sleeper for the composers. 

The composer controlled Serta than spoke, "Why do you keep hiding from us?  We have mutual interests.  You will never destroy the custodians on your own.  We survived the worst of them.  You barely survived a punitive action over what, a warp drive that isn't so sensitive to gravity, if that even what it truly is?  We know there is more interference here.  Who was the third actor?  Who were they?  An architect?  Is that it?  Could've been sprawl.  The possibilities have already narrowed and it is clear the custodians saw you as an unwanted factor!  And your band of nomads lacks the actual industry to handle the custodians.  What your society demands is a galactic war, without even the vast industries of prospect space, without even favor of the sprawl or even Vmiskii scale gravity manipulation.  You just want to punch them once, than what?  All of your civilization destroyed, reduced to ashes for thousands of light years?  That is what they will do if you strike at their core servers.  All you have struggled with is but their patrols.  You think you stand a chance against them?  You think you have a hope against them?  And you think we would ever let you destroy that gateway? "

Calso winced, trying to purge themselves of the doubts the composer tried to put into it  and stated, "Enough." before destroying Serta's ship and all aboard it with an antimatter volley all those around knew would arouse custodian attention.  The delegate composer than warped away and so did the rest of the imperium ships, as immediately as they possibly could. 

This information was all stored by the Silent Pact and the composer delegate, but is weakly distributed at best.  This incident occurred around 2730.  10 years before the present. 

**Epilogue**

The Silent Pact's infiltration of the Plexus and even parts of prospect space had become widespread.  These researchers turned vindictive crusaders had built a cryptic force of technologically advanced nomads and sleepers across many star systems with the logistical advantages of the blink drive.  They still had Composer competition and Custodians hunting them always.  But the [[Grand Assembly]], [[The Manifold]] and [[Virtue Coalition]]  strugglef in dealing with the silents, most notably because the silents proved too compelling to a disturbing share of both human and tikali populations.  The custodians weren't popular and the silents were mythical in a way, this idea they can strike at the custodians.  In a way the knowledge of the Silent Pact becoming so widespread had been a problem for the custodians, as they couldn't tell what was a real Silent Pact connection or not anymore.  And if they struck too much it may risk another prospect space situation.  But with blink drive attacks... not a favorable situation for the custodian drones.  

It had in recent years become  clear that the Assembly had disturbingly high amounts of ties to the [[Mediators]] and Urzine Domain at the same time.  The Virtue Coalition meanwhile seemed to be dealing with [[Stargi]] and may even have loose connections to the [[Phidians]]. The Ikirmites too have prospect spacer connections, who doesn't.  What those connections were built on?  A range of things, mainly consisting of higher order scarcities seen as needing to be addressed.  Scarcity of purpose, scarcity of freedom, scarcity of order, scarcity of hope, scarcity of friends, seeking tech trades in exchange for favors down the line and so on.  The prospect spacers had their friends in the civic, but they were usually a minority of the population. 

A sizable and at times, vocal one that had to be shut up but still.  A minority.  Silent Pact cultists were in a similar situation despite some of their appeal, given how many feared what custodians may do next as they have at times struck at people detected interacting with Silent Pact members and activated sleepers.  The divided between the factions have renewed in many regards, what brief warm feelings shattered by a range of scandals that outraged the VC once more from the exposed collaborations between mediator diplomats and world ministers that to some looked like selling the Plexus out.  Needless to say populist revolts on a several world states broke out an elections backlashes against such collaboration took root, only to find those "anthrocentrics" also had collaborationist tendencies.  Some other force was pulling the strings now, and it didn't look good to the common Assembly member who for so long had saw the Assembly as a balancing force for a public good independent of any outside intrusions.  Lots of civil unrest broke out in the 2730's that continues now.  Prospect Spacers underestimated the extent humans would tolerate alien interference, a mistake a species like the [[Ikirmites]] knew not to make but the prospect spacers simply didn't care about such consequences.

#outdated 
#Utanguis 
#human 
#MetaDisputed 
#story 
#narrative 