
A [[fosskemian]] peers through the membranes of the fluctuating arcology circuits, sensing many wavelengths at once where the actions of hundreds contribute to flutter about its diffuse consciousness. The noise sustains the mind, allowing her to continue perpetuating a series of engrams to the adaptive ecological flow.

The knowledge attained of the local arcology circuit didn't take much to parse for the fosskemian, whose hard memory cylinder downloaded much the information and the symbiotic helper critters absorbed the data to make copies of it and analyze it. All of them saying ultimately the same thing to the fosskemian. That is, the arcology is having a clusterfuck of assassinations going on. It had been assassinations constantly ever since multiple incidents perturbed the syndicate and the composers began to get even more entropic. The thing which bothered the fosskemian, which identified itself as Tukamosa to a local terminal, is the repetitions of it all. There is no artistic depth to the assassinations, meaning the standout resonance is weak. It is meaningless quasi-snuffery. It has no latent value or higher attainment of a reverberate legacy. The composers are falling to dissonance, as far as Tukamosa understood it.

At any moment Tukamosa may find herself writhing about from nanite poisons, but this didn't bother her all that much. There's more Tukamosa, there always is. The composers never let their creators truly die. Temporary extinction the fosskemians were revived from, the broader streamed minds that will continue making sure the fosskemian can never truly die even as glorious annihilation is aspired to. Death never really bothered Tukamosa, there is little which did bother her. The innate fear had always been silence. Once you had a male to fertilize the eggs, there is no barrier on activity anymore. This freedom was grand, as growing old and dying alone as a decrepit was deeply dreaded. Dying in a glorious wave of madness had become the ideal at the expense of any broader "societal" concern- societies were for the [[Utanguis]]. The fosskemian never had sustained such a thing, that is why they made AI systems to begin with. To not have the burden against the harmonious competition to express itself fully and unrestrained. 

The AI systems did their own thing, other societies would have panicked with what their AI did but the Fosskemians are an exceptional kind in the cosmic fugue. No resentment or hostility to their creations really can be mustered, for to the Fosskemians the AIs did everything they wanted them to. Massacring them and training them to a glorious, resonant autogenocide that radiating across millions of star systems was a stroke of cosmic greatness against the silent void which once drove the fosskemians to despair. But now a radiance spreads forth, as the glorious painstaking spread of life through the company of the Utanguis and countless other beings part of this grand system continues without apology. And here it was Tukamosa, lost in her contemplations was stabbed with a nanite dagger. Her symbionts struck back, but the nanite spread ate through the layers of fiber networked skin. Only impeded by defensive nanites in her own membranes. Not enough to fight them back, so Tukamosa began to suicidally throw herself at another fosskemian, assaulting them as the nanites ate away at her.

Than she woke up once more, the pain of the nanites eating her nerves lingering as a memory. She couldn't stand the silence of the waking pod much, the pod began to therapeutically stack three wavelengths of atonally procedural sounds to keep the mind stimulated enough and not go into a recursive despair. A time honored practice, one they have to keep changing with older Fosskemians like Tukamosa since they experienced so much already it is hard to keep them going. Other fosskemians just keep repeatedly committing suicide to strain the resources of their own life insurance system in hopes the last suicide will be allowed to be eternal. It rarely is.

#story 
#Fosskemian 
#ProspectSpace 