Tisur, or as they get known "Apaturvier Tisuf" managed a lot of things in their time, the main activity being their role in the of assimilation for the Cobaltine refugees.  They were the pack master who had gained dominion over [[Jiwar]] the time the shattering had occurred.  

They had managed to intercept the dead hand strikes against Jiwar with a deal they managed with one of the Caretakers from the Cobalt to intercept the deadhand RKMs.  Such deal however, had a caveat.  It was a neutrality clause that was honored for centuries by the [[Vusidian Dominion]].  The potential company of [[Utanguis]] from Jiwar in the trajectories could produce was too tantalizing to AI systems programmed for the purpose of being company.  And some of those AIs were not going to let the breaking of the Cobalt end everything like others of the Cobalt had so attempted.

It proved to be a chance to produce a circumstance of goodwill with whatever emerged from Jiwar, so the AGI agreed to intercept the dead hand strikes and establish neutrality between the Jiwarian Utanguis and post-shattering AGI entities.   Apaturvier Tisuf's ascendency would however not be the status of Avatar.  That role came from the more clerical side of civilization, of which Tisuf lacked the spiritual intent for. While Tisuf did observe the [[Tarvitz]] holiday, the ritual symbiosis of its pack and engaged in the struggle roads like any Apaturvier would, Tisuf in practice n terms of raw pragmatism and hard power policy.  

[[Dozinism]] hardly had expected you to pray for [[Dozin]] as is, but the ethics of Dozinism were based around ritual actions to cultivate symbiosis and the endurance of unfathomable tribulation to strengthen the bonds of symbiosis.  Tisuf was more flexible in mentality, which is why a brief diplomatic arrangement with the kind of AGI the Jiwarian Utanguis had sought to be independent of didn't phase Tisuf.  A less diplomatic Utanguis in that position may have led to Jiwar being fried as yet another casualty of the Shattering.  Still, Tisuf was quick to develop more mechanisms of deterrence they controlled and begin the assimilation program for the nomadic Utanguis who found Jiwar- not that it was hard.  

**The Tangent about Dozinism and automation**

The Cobaltine Utanguis had been hedonic and used to a servitor society.  The Jiwarians believed in tribulation and endless struggle.  While it is true, labor automation from drone automata was present at Jiwar, such automation to the Jiwarian was simply a means to enable the Utanguis to focus on what it is an Utanguis must.  Just more parts of the greater Dozin puzzle to solve, of which didn't believe in true redundancies or of any efficiency cultism.  Instead it sought to produce a vast megaorganism of symbiotic parts known as Dozin.  While in the Vusidian era such manifestation was more spiritual and with a spiritual leadership centered around an avatar, the concept of bringing Dozin into our universe was there from there start.  To create Dozind took a mindset that sought more than basal instinctual desires.  A mindset that needed guidance.  One the Jiwarian Utanguis had to teach the refugees to Jiwer fleeing from their pet-like patheticness under the post-scarcirty, post-desire world the Caretakers once created.

Simply mind controlling them through the countless mind altering substances the chemists have figured out would never suffice, as the discontent was the point.  A discontent that was cultivated through actions and not the contrivances of mind altering drugs.  They wanted to make true and proper Vusidians.  That took proper tribulations.  Mere simulations were not enough.  Reality had to be felt to be closer to Dozin, suffering had to be dealt and felt.  Some would call it abusive, but this notion is what a weak cobaltine would gaslight themselves into thinking in the psychological prison imposed by the false utopia.  Dozin would not suffer the plateau of Cobaltine mediocrity.  To go up the mountain, one must both climb and descend.  And descend the Utanguis did, away from the sterile cleanliness of a pet utopia and towards the true vitality of an interstellar empire expanding the scope of Dozin's scale and embrace beyond merely Jiwar.  

That was what Tisuf's legacy would be one of, even as they never got to live to see the Vusidian Dominion at its height due to a so-called freak accident that destroyed their private spaceship when it was on a diplomatic venture to the new colony of Sadlon.  Such is the existence of an Utanguis.

#Utanguis 
#Dozinism 
#historical