The Chronomatics are a major Glinnvyr society who blur the line between faction and organization due to being like a massive university that works on the potential of a universal syncing of reality to a state of harmony unheard of in the universe.  But one that they view must be achieved cooperatively instead of through force like with the Dreamer.  Their nature is mood oriented, with colorations and gradients being associated with time itself.  Red time, Blue time being the two main ones based on Redshift and Blueshift.  Redtime being associated with the offensive, Blue time with the defensive.   The whole rainbow of wave lengths is however involved as a whole with their civilization. 

The Chromatics have an incredibly powerful industrial complex due to using time dilation technology to accelerate their productivity ten-fold, an aspect that has made them have one of the most extensive armies in the modern galaxy with few rivals.   Their time dilation technology slows or accelerates regional time, not by speed but by compressing or expanding the very flow of time itself in a region.  The Chromatics surprisingly only have a moderate sized empire based on this technology, utilizing it within their own individuals as they advanced up the ranks and enlighten themselves into the great standard of civilization. 

The Chromatics have a general culture of metamorphic shifts and extreme organization unlike the other Glinnvyr out there and this has allowed them to pervade as a powerful force completely clean of the dreamer ideals- as the ideal of chromatic prowess and synchronicity became the norm among the oligarchy of chronoturgists and their supposed mastery of time itself.  The Chromatics would also engage in projects such as the creation of the Statics and the development of spatial distortion to create alien geometries on a small scale. 

All matter of wonder technologies has come into the reach of the Chromatics, who do not seem to use foam tech nearly as liberally as the Realm of Enlightenment.  They do use it however, but mostly obscured in a layer of aesthetic reflective metal the Realm of Enlightenment does not.  As if they are ashamed of it.  Militarily the Chromatics are much more personal- the Redshiftted military fight on foot no matter the environment in highly advanced meldsuits and neural binded vehicles where they lead ‘toy armies’ for planetary conquests.  The Chromatics in their aggression have made many enemies however, mainly with the Utanguis and Ikeitans with interstellar skirmishes against the Ikeitans being very common.  However, their greatest conflicts are with other Glinnvyr- especially the Realm of Englightenment.