
One of the less appreciated aspect of the [[Architect Expanse]] and the galaxy at large is the indirect harm that the Image Network has caused the modern galaxy, be it in their supply of access to the [[Custodians]] for their rampant hegemony or their experiments with space time that have gotten unwanted attention from sprawl factions.

**The Mountain of Plates**

The mountain of plates is the society ran by the infinite minded one, who is a mere [[Glinnvyr]] who  wears the great plate of vision connected to the image network of the galaxy in absolute solitude.  It is alive and dead at the same time, in a state of endless ambiguity made to make it impossible to assail.  The mountain of plates and the infinite minded head a territorial military system where all who colonize in its space fall under the watch of the infinite minded and must accept being a subject of the infinite minded.  The reach of the infinite minded is limited to a part of the galaxy, as it has been limited in its expansion by the chromatists and empire of Choice. 

Their civilization is laden in cities of the dead, preserved obsessively in the name of being in that state of non-material death in the image net (which is basically just a network of pocket hyperspace mixed with wormholes to create a system of vast reach, indeed their image network actually extends throughout such a vast share of the galaxy the custodians are freaked out to a degree about it.  The Image Network is perhaps the only architect expanse power who credibly could harm the Custodians as their activities extend into the Conduit itself. 
The Image Network is one of the greatest vectors for Interlopers and this has made them a massive enemy of the Custodians even after their prior alliance back when trying to nullify [[Prospect Space]] was considered a massive issue.
 
Meanwhile the infinite minded one is very much an administrator, and is why the finite minded one exists in such solitude in reality- for if its location was known it would die and anarchy would manifested across billions of star systems.  Why, most don't even know what species the infinite minded one even is, they know it only as the omnipresent god of this sub-universe).