
## The Jarto

The Jarto are beings of Vamusk descent who were found where they should not have existed- with their existence being based in the Aquila Rift and without much a sense of space.  They have made a network of artificial worlds in their local region and have regular dealings with various sprawl factions who go out to its sectors, mainly in the form of various defense treaties.  Their artificial worlds are usually characterized by an anomalous degree of sterility with the desire for clean worlds being effectively the doctrine of the Jarto.  The Jarto shelled themselves into the most sterile possible conditions and have a society which is triplistic in its worldview.  The Jarto entities are named primarily after their artificial nexus world much more than their home world and they don't like to acknowledge their home world.  The Jarto tend to be a very insular bunch, making use of a secluded wormhole network as opposed to traditional FTL and loathe anti-matter which has limited their development in multiple areas (even if they could in theory make warp drives, they just don't).  They tend to be extremely territorial as well, when they aren't dealing with ongoing rebellion troubles in their core worlds (while counter intuitively, the peripheral is astoundingly loyal).  The Jarto value for cleanliness is paired with an extremely regulated system of obsessive policing, even if punishment tends to be usually silent room based instead of execution based.  They abhor VR despite existed in a state of perpetual augmented reality within the magnetized constructs they use to fly around their worlds.  They aren't too advanced and have generally benefited by being extremely neutral and existing in isolation from the rest of the galaxy.  The origins of the Jarto are cryptic, but what is known is that they are biologically descendants of the Vamusk though they lack any the extremely patriarchal social system of the Vamusk (it isn't even clear if they have gender as a societal concept and they don't seem to have organic births either) 


**The Lost City**
The Last city is a faction that has remained extremely ordered and extremely advanced.  The Last city is an unknown, existing in total mystery for the most part.  No one really knows they even exist.  They are a solipsistic and deeply totalitarian society that has made absolute efforts to ensure they aren’t even observed and exploring the 270 or so dead city-worlds in nearby sprawl clusters will net you very little in regards to their whereabouts and they’ll kill you the minute you find them with weapons built with eradicating any traces of your existence in mind.  This type of death occurs on multiple city worlds, which means that you’ll never know which city world has them until it is too late.  The Last City’s species is suspected to be Kabuzihin or Operiunn.  The Last city may have a space fleet, but it has never been seen.

**The Monitors**

The monitors are a mysterious force in this continuity who seem to have no purpose other than persistently discussing the council meeting that no one attends.  Anyone who goes to its location will just find a bunch of Operiunn mucking about, feeding on ancient ruins of unknown societies.  The League of Wisdom seems to think they have a purpose still; that of a trap to find any new potential species to bring into the fold and make one of their own.  The Monitors had been an organ of the now dead Sprawling Empire.

**The Market of the Dead**
 
The Dead Market is a sprawl phenomenon, as is the Ruined Worlds of the Toybox Cluster located in the upper parts of our galaxy towards the Aquila Rift.  The Necropolis are known for being incubators of long lost atrocities, held within by automated security machines who never tire and have become their own civilization dedicated to the protection of the dead and see not much need to deal with outsiders beyond weapons trade in exchange for raw resources.  They won't trade any of the ancient artifacts for any amount of wealth.  It is impossible as a move for them to do so.

**Opallian Domain**

The Opallians are a Vamusk Clade called such for their opalescent coloration that appeared around 1340 years ago from one of the major city worlds and proved very Vigorous at taking over city worlds making them a major enemy of the Federations and even being responsible for the collapse of the Forth Federation. Their society is a dualarchy. The modern Opallian Domain has even tried conquering outside of the Sprawl, but they end up dealing with all manner of trouble as it turns out they were in parity with the Glinnvyr. Counter invasions have been caused by Opallian attempts to conquer "lesser" species and often failing due to not being flexible with tech, simply resourceful with it meaning they can't sustain the losses the "lesser" species can and rebound. 
The Opallians after their failed attempt to invade the Realm of Enlightenment would move on to focus their efforts at conquering more of the Sprawl, but ultimately they are not able to improve on old tech and have a hard time even replicating it to the purity it once had. They have made much more progress than other post sprawl Vamusk cultures in that regard however, making them among the more dangerous forces of the Sprawl.  The Opallians have a large Vay and Kabuzihin population, but are extremely xenophobic towards the Operiunn due to bad blood running between them and the League of Wisdom.  The Opallians, while imperialistic do not seem to engage in slavery even if the same sort of hierarchal attitudes that often characterize Vamusk civilizations are present.  They are more or less fuedalists with stagnant power structures at the top with fluidity in the middle and bottom.

LEAGUE OF WISDOM
The League of Wisdom is a faction of multiple species under apparent Operiunn influence which is more known for infighting among the scholarly elite than proper success in any reunifications of the sprawls.  For the urban planets are very hard to invade without slagging them, and slagging them by anyone tends to lead to said faction ceasing to exist when multiple other civs crusade against the faction as had happened against the Melodious Synchronicity in the past century.  The League of Wisdom continues to piece together ancient knowledge and attempting to influence the politics of the galaxy a fool’s errand for the mere fact that the actually powerful factions are very hard to ideologically penetrate.  The League of Wisdom is playing a long game and the elites continue their mission to rebase the empire one world at a time.  The League of Wisdom seems to be more a civilization atop a civilization than a continuation of what once existed, having their own beliefs, architectural style and ‘cultural pattern’ that is distinctly non-sprawl.  Other aspects of the League of Wisdom include their propensity towards lavish temples and highly designed city structures built within a dead city atop of the eroded infrastructure, said erosion being a product of the automata being less able to fix problems the League of Wisdom causes by getting in the way.  The League of Wisdom annoys the hell out of the virtual systems in the dead cities for that reason and often gives them a lot of trouble, much to the confusion of the League of Wisdom.

#Sprawl 
#remnant
#outdated 