# The Vmiskii Empire (Empire of Choice)

## Overview

The Vmiskii Empire is among the most powerful empires, if not the most powerful empire in the modern Galaxy.  The Vmiskii came from a rebellion against old masters, seeking to break the caste system and instate a superior utopian society.  This rebellion happened ~1000 years ago, or when humans just figured cars out (1900's) The Vmiskii empire is a hard meritocracy- they really are meritocratic.  As in legit 100% non-nepotistic meritocracy.  This is due to their reliance on a amoral system of 'effort' algorithms that monitor all citizens of the Vmiskii Empire.  Idling is viewed as a deep taboo, seen tantamount to murder if it goes on long enough.  

The Vmiskii Empire is deeply uncompromising in that regard and has made a multitude of integration experiments with other species into their system- in one notorious instance working a whole species unable to work to the system basically to death.  The luckier species rank up and at times get amazingly high positions in the Vmiskii empire and hold the same fervor for the endless road of existence.  Reincarnation is loosely believed, but not enough to suicide.  The Vmiskii due to being a highly machinist society do not actually have the collective or communal behaviors of the more nudist oriented cultures once you "develop" to the higher orders.

The Vimiskii Empire is a powerful, but somewhat compact and irregular empire consisting of multiple liberated [[Aveterriat]] world-states and a powerful, but spread out military.  The Vimiskii continue many of the beliefs of the protectorate with two major shifts of culture that have made them irreconcilable to the Protectorate.  The first is their complete and total rejection of the harmonious caste system, instead developing into what is usually referred to as a “theocratic technocracy”- where you have a hierarchal society that sees Machinists as a higher rank that the Nudist majorities should strive for.  In this regard, the Vimiskii have made social mobility much more flexible due to being able to grow up from a young age able to potentially become a soulless machine.  The second shift is their willingness to interact with alien species in regards to diplomacy in that they do conduct some form of diplomatic action and have come to value trying to understand other cultures than their own, even if only as a means to an end.  The Vimiskii Empire’s disruption of the colonies and the system of Determiners that has defined long periods of time has made them a massive problem for the Protectorate and other post-colonial Aveterriat cultures such as the Null (which is technically a drone swarm the Vimiskii go to war with a lot) or Long Confederation.

The Vimiskii have a hierarchy where the higher ranked must work harder to maintain said rank and demotions are frequent.  Those who remain too lazy lazy are killed off without a second thought since laziness is viewed as a mental illness by the Vimiskii and the cure they see is death since they blame the “poor vessel” the soul inherited and believe renewal through bloodshed as a lenient way of giving a second chance to those who lack value.  The Vmiskii believe multiple species have souls, but that souls do not transfer between species.  The Vimiskii give moral exemptions to the most hard working professionals in their society who aren’t a centralized leadership but instead a board-like structure with hundreds of individuals who act as examples to all the lesser in their empire.  Other species exist in the empire in varying relationship ranging from experiments of assimilation (to their system) to total indifference.  

The Vmiskii aveterriat brought themselves out of the hellish mold of earlier existence, emancipating themselves from the determiners fully to make a society where all Aveterriat can find their way not through random chance, but through choice and an amoral meritocracy.  The Vmiskii is a state of being, a political party and an ideology at the same time.  This united system is what defines their civilization, multiple Vmiskii stylzed societies exist, but the “Empire of Choice” as it is called is what has propagated their system the most.
Vmiskii Aveterriat are theocratic technocrats, melding into their minds the concept of rebirth and ascendance through industry, work.  Far more dogmatic is a belief system unique to them, that of universal reincarnation between all acknowledged sapiens.  

Vmiskii seek to build, conquer, remake and emerge into a program of systemic unmaking when the heat death nears.  Their plans, wrote over centuries span billions of years and depict ambitions to ultimately subdue the galaxy and increase the productivity of the galaxy to states that will save us from the entropic collapse of the universe.  And to continue doing so even in any universes that come about.  A truly eternal system is what they seek.  The clients of the Vmisk are forced into their system and their old culture perverted to fit the needs of the Vmisk, whatever that may be.  It is possible to retain identitiy even in the rigors of the Vmiskii, for in time the higher ranks start having your specie’s members…  Provided your kind proves productive.  Species who remain useless too long end up being all worked to death.

Vmiskii communities are communal, much like in many aveterriat societies, but the technocracy is brutal and demanding of all to never stop functioning.  Death is not an excuse to stop.

The Vmiskii drive to work persistently and with absolute determination towards their goals, be it the subduing of enemies, the creation of new military weapons or wiping out planets they seek to colonize. Vmiskii culture is focused deeply on endless effort, the Vmiskii mythological system being a repetitive procession of millions of god beings who pushed into ever higher forms.  Iterate, iterate, the subsuming of the individual to eternity is how the Vmiskii understand existence.  Their idea of entertainment, though not called such by them includes systemic massacres of wild life on planets and making it rain flesh, for all is material.  The violent undertones of their civilization has not abated their ability to engage in trade with others, of which the traders are characteristic in their paranoia that they fail to meet their quotas.  If lucky that just means a physical death and nothing more scarring.

The Vmiskii are not a caste society, instead it is a very rigorous society built on the ideal of a amoral meritocracy and the common right to choose one’s place in society.  Of course, you have to have a place in society.  Or you should not exist.  This belief system is universalist and is imposed on their subjects regardless of species.  Even animals are subject to their system to a heavy extent, though “property” seems to be their main choice regardless.  Vmiskii education is centered around the concept of internal talent- Aveterriat are given a general education in many fields, the fields they perform best in are the ones they are set to specialize further in if they are to ascend in the hierarchy.  Gifted Aveterriat may specialize in multiple fields.  Failures are executed.  Vmiskii do not have parents, they have numerous sets of caretakers as the parents are never certain.  The nudists reproduce when they want, as their children are than advanced in mind to attain higher states of living.  

Nudists occupy lower parts of the hierarchy as all are born naked, but one day wil be married to the machine if they prove themselves capable of it.  A fusion of flesh and metal to create the ultimate being.  Cyborgs of Aveterriat origin are a status symbol and a second level of hierarchy exists for these cybernetic aveterriat who (in theory) work harder than the nudists, carrying out the functions that keep the Empire afloat and often are multi-talented.  Laziness means death here even more so, all are watching, all are prepared to tear you apart if you fail to do your part.

There is no actual uniform law in the Vmisk Empire, instead there is a set of ethical values descended from dozens of codes that are rigidly reassembled by law makers to fit into the current agenda, but no single set of law is followed- you can switch the laws you follow at any time regardless of your position.  All these laws are quite draconian and engineered to maximize productivity be it through endless work or be expected to periodically “play” hard as well.  Vmiskii ideas of play mind you, means ritual slaughtering of biota to take out frustration.  Flesh art is a major cultural product of the Vmisk as well.

Vmiskii are not ruled by any single individual, instead everything is enforced by everyone watching each other at all times with multiple watch groups set up to keep stability.  Instead of a leader, the highest Aveterriat in the highest echelons of their society never stop working to codominate the empire held together by ideology and hard power.  Rebellions are frequent, the codominant combine forces to violently crush the “reverters” who seek to return back to the casteminded systems that are more the norm of the Aveterriat due to the Protectorate’s Determiner system.

Vmiskii trade is uncommon outside their empire, often trading with labor from their society in exchange for influence in a polity.  Xenophobia hasn’t stopped some from still finding trade opportunities with other species, mainly in any unique minerals that are in relative abundance elsewhere in the galaxy or in exchange for test subjects and slaves.  Interacting with them is a very strange game of manipulating their collective views and doing anything you can to avoid making them see you as a threat to their existence.  They’re very neutral towards most space faring polities otherwise since they have yet to even finish conquering their own species, let alone the galaxy.

Vmiskii technology is extremely iterative and notable for being obsessively detailed in glyphs that reiterate the spoken words of regional professionals.  Music exists, shockingly enough, and their music is very harmonious even to human ears, its purpose being to create pure vibes and keep the mind from being clouded in unwanted thoughts.  The lack of central law has made the Vmiskii civilization inconsistent in their attitude towards music, art and other cultural norms with some Vmiskii obsessively collecting alien art behind the backs of their ever watchful peers.  

Professionals being high achieving Vmiskii who spread their knowledge to all.
The Codominant and the twelve code sets are the foundations of their government, morality comes from the Professionals and prevalent belief systems on reincarnation.  They also connect the power of work and effort to moral success; failure is the result of laziness.  Mass executions, that are often public and carried out without warning tend to result from military or diplomatic failures.  They do have trials, of which are carried out by overworking the defendant in multiple tasks associated with its path in life to prove their innocence.  Hard workers who murder lazy aveterriat are acceptable, but a lazy aveterriat who murders a hard worker has no proper punishment for such an atrocity except a torture century.  Which is when you and any Aveterriat believed to be your reincarnations are tortured for a century to keep the torturers occupied.

Vmiskii industry is vast, with 100% employment since all are assigned purpose from the egg, all will find their purpose in existence or be euthanized for retardation (for laziness is a mental disability).  They make use of automata and VI systems, Ai systems tend to be integrated into machinists, all machinists essentially being a Aveterriat shelled into a modular apparatus that is than given tool parts to carry out tasks, regardless of what these tasks are.  Aveterriat engineering is incredibly advanced in general, the engineering of the Vmisk empire being no exception.

Vmiskii engineers make hull systems that can absorb energy weapons with ease, being able to divert the heat from super heating to charge their plasma cell systems.  Vmiskii spaceships are able to also have energy barrier systems that can hold off attack with low failure rates, space-time frame shifting to change direction out of nowhere.  For antigravity as a common norm and extremely liberal use of anti-particle and cobalt (irradiation) weaponry along with having miniaturized mass drivers that their frigate sized ships can use multiple times in a single minute without failure or overheating along with being able to than use heat dispersion to intercept enemy attacks for hours on end.  There is various models of warship, all of them capable of wiping out a planet bound society in a matter of minutes if so inclined.  Vmiskii ships aren’t huge and often only have 1 pilot if it’s a warship with their colony ships being their large spacecraft to support the seeding systems and colonists within.   This is much in line with the tech other aveterriat use.  The big difference is that the Vmisk empire is able to field in large armies of ships and has many more specialized spaceships that the more generalist world states, having separate spaceships for diplomacy and trade as well.  They also have made use of comparatively larger mother ships unlike their cousins, mainly due to having to go to war with massive empires who can overwhelm them if they are unable to field in numbers that aren’t in the 100’s.  These mother ships tend to be equipped with the capability irradiate whole star systems from the fringes. Vmiskii ships however, are seen as not as high quality as the ships utilized by the Protectorate, who have made ships that can hide on the surface of stars without a problem.  The protectorate however, is limited to one world and does not have nearly the numbers the Vmisk does.  

The Vmiskii have over a thirty fleets of ships with 160-270 ships, which compared to the other powerful galactic empires is small.  However, only one of their ships can occupy numerous star systems by undergoing rigorous patrol cycles and their empire remains feared regardless due to their determination and unbreakable war machine.  
Ground Vmiskii are very similar to their cousins as well, being able to deploy asteroid-like constructs from orbit.  The Vmiskii notably will make use of mercury entities that have only been destroyed using overpowering WMDs handheld or strategic.  Their wars for strategic control of worlds forces them into ground conflicts quite a bit, not to mention the Vmisk have something in common with some Rovii cultures in that they are like cats playing with food, but the Vmisk see it more as “live training” than “playing”.

Vmisk common life is rigid and time-based, life is centered around a endless procession of quotas from birth to death, Failure to follow the quotas can be deeply punishing to the point of death to the aveterriat who are irredeemably unable to carry out quotas.  Freedom of choice comes from using one of the law sets and abiding by those laws in parallel to others who may follow other law sets.  Law sets are made only by the professionals who have proven their nature to be best suited to draft new codes, of which than get iterated and updated over time to be more “pure” by other professionals.  Freedom of choice in work and the existence of a genuine meritocracy that is kept in order by everyone keeping each other in check (the professionals codominant the whole society with genuine groups who keep everything accountable) is one of the major appeals of the Vmisk to outsiders.  The sheer rigidity of the system and its disregard for individual life however is quite alienating to democrats.  Freedom of work in their sense means you get raised by the community as a whole instead of by a family and that education is used to determine what one is best suited for in life, being expected to try all fields and judging on the amount of productivity they achieve in each field, are than able to pursue specialized paths.  Extremely similar to the education systems of other species, except that it is literally done from birth and leaves no room to fuck around.

The Vmiskii Aveterriat do not live in spires, instead they live in sprawling spine structures centered around planet wide mass transit networks with many nodes where centers of industry, “arts” and learning exist.  Aveterriat who are trusted to set up these institutions do so with a dedicated power base in an almost corporate fashion, except that they all pledge allegiance to the Vmisk Empire and must keep in line with the code they have subscribed to.  The Vmiskii Empire therefore is somewhat of a corporatistic technocracy.  These institutions also aren’t profit based, instead they are based around generating and producing as a goal in of itself with wealth being minimal and highly distributed, the Vmisk currency being based around favors more than anything else.  Working for others with your talent set is expected and Aveterriat are trained from birth to work for the sake of working, favors being a reward because it means they can work more.  Overworking is not seen as a problem at all to them and working to death is often revered since their belief in reincarnation means there is no true death, only respawning to do it all over again.

The institution system is universal and occupies the niche that humans would normally occupy with corporations.   It is this system that is used to designate the many tasks a aveterriat may take.
Including piloting, vent management, transit specialist, intelligence, diplomatic ops, assimilation ops, technician, coding, cooking, greasing, alloy engineering, magnetic generation, xenolinguisticist, proxy ops, architect, designer, developer, speaker, system dynamics editor, gravity engineering, distributing, spying, watching, prostitution, sanitation, life management, sapient management, executioner, geologist, chemist, physicist, cosmographer, world builder, watchnet developer, watchnet specialist, particle engineer, augmenter, mapper, detail mapper, prospector, miner, strip miner, refiner, second order refiner, third order refiner, assembler, transporter, recorder, reporter, militia ops, nanoengineer, medical engineer, medical augmentor, nutritional prospector, galactic historian, long term planner, rumor fabricator, censor, drug regulator, stimulant researcher, stimulant distributor, stimulant synthesizer, sleeper assassin, special operations, ship specialist, deployment ops, resource  cl
management, fun management, biologist, macrobiologist, microbiologist, synthetic biology, pattern seeker, pattern dynamics, logician, mathematician, reality coding, warp specialist, sculptor, artisan, remixer, musician, judgement ops, reincarnation specialist, genetic psychologist and quite a few more.  Mind that a good share of these have their sub-categories and some of these work on multiple levels atop each other.

These aveterriat follow their work, it’s not referred to as a “job”, instead it is seen as simply what you do and the means to carry out what they do they have proven themselves best suited for are given by laws that are meant to give conduct sets that are seen as beneficial to fulfilling your purpose.  Managers tend to be higher ranking aveterriat in their class who assign tasks to lower ranked Aveterriat, these are watched by other managers to keep abuse in check- absurd or impossible quotas are seen as wasteful since a task that is undisputably impossible (proven by having the higher ranked aveterriat have to carry out the quotas they assigned usually- if they are successful, you can be executed for wasting your higher up’s time) can lead to unneeded punishment to diligent workers.  It also acts as a form of worker protection, from other workers.  Higher ranked Aveterriat get the additional stresses of having to manage lower ranked aveterriat, thankfully provisionally.  

The highest ranked aveterriat in their fields are what professionals are, who gain a religious sense of prestige to them.

See also:
[[Aveterriat for 2023 questions]]

#empire
#Architect 
#aveterriat 