Gaze upon the vast water filled cityscapes with their foyers and terraced architecture with windows overlooking a cubic bay.  

See the environment of the Tiam bays of Drusis.  Their vivid contrasting imagery made all the more clear by the aquaplanes which use the underbay as a landing zone and the regular stops by the new questioner movement who have taken up residence in a large swathe of the city.  

The calm meander of the artificial bay is where we see the glass tinkering of the walkers.  Mannequins of Virtuals walk aside, some playfully diving to their death from the balconies knowing they can't actually die.  Unsettling imagery for those unfamiliar with their usual activities in the region.  In truth it is a pretty lax seaside city, it isn't a megapolis like the inner Drusis metropole now an arcology like the ocean volcano arcologies found far off the coastline.  But still, it is nice property space even without the luxuries of the highest technologies the grand assembly has on offer.  These property spaces have routes around them leading to the actual purpose of the city and that is as a data editing mainframe.  Most people in these future times basically live on a glorified computational mainframe or are hooked up to some mainframe or otherwise are a robot mannequin controlled by some distant virtual in the safety of their brain in a jar allocated space.  

All of which has led to the continued narrative of the Drusis Authority as a place of paradise.  Content and data regulation as a result needs constant curation and modification to align everything to the general vision of what the good life on Drusis is to be.  It is a practice with a legacy tainted by the past failures of the Vanguard but the Editors Syndicate formed to handle the scale of editing operations needed has assured they have studied the history of editing from the first scribes to the present and have come up with the "better truth" use.  The Editing Syndicate's purpose as a syndicate is to be an enterprise which looks at the world and curates it to reveal the truth in a way the "muddiness" of realism 'obfuscates what needs to be known".  

The Questioning Ones are their main rival of course, they want the muddiness and to see it all.  They distrust the Syndicate and have been preaching at the Tiam Bays about the rising 'sterility' of the edited systems at play.  Much of which is further beyond merely modifying articles, VR or AR media but even at times attempting to retroactively modify the memories of citizens if possible,  The last step has not bee proven entirely as it is illegal in the [[Grand Assembly]] to forcefully alter people's memory banks.  This has not stopped there from being attempts to try, despite constant pushback by the main Assembly factions who would rather live with the past traumas of existence even if they cause so much pain.  Some say this in itself is toxic, but it is what has been the norm and the Editing Syndicate with the Drusis Authority backing them has forgone the regulation due to the inability to actually enforce such activities and the local assembly militias suspicious of the main assembly fleet being strong enough to make "light offenses" too step a price to pay.

#plexus 
#colony 
#human 
#GrandAssembly 