# Dwaine

Dwaine is the main planet of the Cyngus 1772 System.  Or as it is actually called by those who live there, the Zornickan system due to [[The Vanguard]] colony ship's heavy Serbian population seeing intense auroras around each world in the system.  Cyngus 1772 is a late F-class star with numerous distinctive properties that lead to intense periods of solar winds.  It isn't the most stable star, but not to prohibitive yearly solar flare degrees like a lot of star systems can be.  The stake claiming battles over stars got very aggressive on earth, but the Zornickan colonists managed to get an F-class star even if they had to share with a plurality of people from India and the US.  The Vanguard preferred colony ships of mixed nationalities as a means to avoid nationalist colonies from emerging.  Or for those less cynical to promote the universal human ideal.  It was as they would say, 12207 HE when their colony ship was launched and it would be a decades long voyage to the Star.

At the Star a slew of reforms occurred near instantly, as the universalist protection policies the prime sovereign on [[Earth]] had hammered out with the socialist coalition party had limited and restricted colonization scope.  In that they didn't want worlds to be particularly damaged with their unique geologies being "compromised".  If even so much a microbe of bacteria was found that world could not be settled.  The problem was the colonists at Dwaine has already made their colony on a world with distinctive bluish bacterial mats.  While they preserved such areas as world centers and potential scientific research posts they still had done quite a bit of colonization elsewhere at the expense of some of the local ecology.  The policy from earth was therefore ignored due to believing in the "actual deal" made with the vanguard as an entity by earth's nations.  That being the vanguard as a temporary entity to facilitate interstellar expansion.  Universalism was not part of their equation as a result.  

The bluish mats adapted just fine to the colonialist activities past the shock, but the environmentalists and romanticists of Dwaine's population wanted to keep the blue coasts intact and so large swathes of the world ended up getting locked from colonization to appease the Vanguard and the planetary romantics.  At the time it was an easy sell because planets are huge anyways and off world mining got established by 12360 HE.

Dwaine was one of the first worlds to secede either way.  They had used the auroras of the world as a heat mask for the local defense grid they had built.  Even in the supposedly preserved areas, cliffside bunkers and networks of submarines with makeshift STO missiles were being built.  Some got exceptionally massive as the goal was to sustain a planetary siege against the Vanguard should they return.  

Dwaine itself was named after the colonial captain Dwaine, the "y" had mutated to an "i" with his name and the name just stuck.  The policy of naming colonized worlds after their captain was a polarizing one on earth, who insisted to call the world HIP 192768 D to "remove the stench of old thinking".  In practice no one took that policy seriously and the name Dwaine stuck to the present. 

**The Integration**

Dwaine's legacy as an early secessionist world would haunt it in some regards, as they never actually did get cracked down upon and their isolationism caused them to fall behind.  One simple reason was happenstance, the Autoenforcer grid was easier to just circumvent than confront and the Vanguard fell unceremoniously.  One day a comm link from a relay ship came in and stated the Vanguard was no more.  There was celebration, but also confusion as what to do with all the defenses they had built up.  It still had a purpose- for the chaos of the warring factions meant the need to protect against interstellar interlopers remained.  And indeed, the stability did attract the attention of strange beings.  Dataships in 12557 HE would arrive to the system with virtual minds seeking a stable place to set up network infrastructure.  The local government of Dwaine agreed due to needing an expansion and the tech improvements were palpable.  Additionally it renormalized Dwaine's relations with other systems as by agreeing to that infrastructure they joined a proto-Plexus.

#plexus 
#colony 
#human 