At Sol, life was in a peculiar place.  [[The Vanguard]] system collapsing led to the system becoming multiple factions, of which had been a mix of dissident as no loyalist groups could form a major post-Vanguard faction and indeed they had formed a coalition to hunt down those former loyalists behind the worst of the Blue One's atrocities while other loyalists laid low. 

Multiple societies in sol had emerged, mostly on mixed lines with lots of disputes on who claimed what.  The major players were the Arctic Concord, Andea, the Galilean Pact, the Himalayans and there being people who attempting to revive China but the Himalayans wouldn't let them.  Neonationalist forces tried to push a revival of the old Terran societies in many places, but they lacked number or power and the identity people went by just wasn't on those geographic or national lines at all.  Additionally populations of people in the orbital grid that had a group of people who called themselves the People of the Equinox.  For it was the Equinox Disruption that they view as what liberated earth from the Blue One's tyranny.  However those on Earth and around Jupiter (which had come to host the largest population of people outside Earth due to the dense network of artificial worlds and such.  They came to see themselves as multiple groups who hosted a lot of dissident groups under the Blue One's nose with martyred leaders from the 2400's filling their halls. 

Indeed welcome to what can be called the outside context problem.  These people didn't really think much of colonies and had over the centuries came to basically see themselves as semi-loyal to the Vanguard, just doing whatever for them when it was less strict but turning to dissidence when the Blue One cracked down on their worlds with threat of blacking out their streams or even demolition of their artificial worlds if they did not follow the codes.  Most on sol actually didn't connect around with colonies outside of certain favored colonies and much of that ended with the [[Vataland]] Catastrophe that led to populations wary of traveling out to colonies- restrictions in and out of sol for civilians also was much more intense.  Communication signals had to be grabbed through relay ships that hit and run data streaming from nearby stars or the oort cloud where dissidents from Sol were hiding from the enforcers.  In general the century of isolation in Sol the Blue One caused led to an overwhelming information flux in the 2480's as the utter catastrophe of the Blue One's colonial policies became absolute and total.  There was no Vanguard, all around Sol, chaos.  And the enforcement systems had their control factors destroyed with the general census being to destroy them with wariness of centralized autoenforcement at an all time high.  Many still feared AGI on earth and would for a time to come, but uplifted animals and more intense augments appeared in the vogue leading to a growth of adaptive groups and the explosion of peoples.  By 2530 one does see all matter of strange uplifts in sol, the first sol centric.  There also was many people who just left sol to other systems despite the scattered interstellar mess things had become to factions like the Consortium or to places like the Regnant if not to the Domain of Kus which was the first faction to make a go to Earth themselves only to find that the solar defense fleets were still pretty hostile to them.  Indeed the general policy people had made was that the solar system is to be a free system and would not be for any of the weird colonial societies that sprung up.  They wanted nothing to do with it and had internal problems to sort out as is.

The post-Vanguard generations of people had those who wanted to try unification again and more traction for reviving old world nations they never lived in.  The most successful of those efforts would be the various small city state based polities that appeared around many parts of the world, but there was just no desire to resume old world feuds when a lot of the interconnection left over from centuries of vanguard world stuck.   Many did try to coopt and revive old earth aesthetics, with religious revivalism being the most successful strain with the faith void the blue one's vison.  So there would actually be some successes with neonats, but there would be complications they ran into in how there are powerful societies that just held new identities.  There are those who did believe Sol should be a unified entity and even consider revanchist actions when possible, as is they kept a large fleet that while not that sustainable would find use in fending off the Golden Swarm and technobarbarians. 

Some sample powers, there's others too but there are prominent as of 2530;

**Arctic Concord**

The Arctic Concord is a large polar power that had come to dominate a large share of the northern hemisphere with all matter of geoengineering and weather manipulation going on.  Indeed paraterraforming was the basis of a vast Siberian population among other things.  Most liked the many mountains and in general their focus was on trying to assert a new global stability from people who tolerated the Vanguard more just because they had proven low corruption records.  But they would also be quick to make grabs for many unification pacts that became known as the Arctic Concord.  They would be forced to stay to those latitudes by other factions, especially the Hymalites and their coalition of post-Vanguard arcology states.  The Arctic Concord also would manipulate auroras much to the annoyance of other societies in the area.  Their population is polarized because a large share despised what came of the Vanguard and generally got the wrong lessons of the Blue One over the AGI status, which mattered less than many think as the Blue One came from a human with the pathologies that the neural programming retained thanks to the black box nature of the tech and people generally not being comfortable with computer alteration of memories even in 2397.

**People of the Equinox**  [CANON ISSUE]

The People of the Equinox are a mostly space based group, with engineers and vacuum folk who lived within a large O'Neil cylinder, the largest one in orbit of Earth.  It was a world that managed to distort data streams to Earth regularly of internal activities while managing to also host orbital defense forces they would in their great disruption subterfuge.  Mind they were mostly loyal until the Tikali contact, which was something they had wanted to do peacefully since they had a guy who was primed for a moment they had known would come for decades they kept hidden from the Blue One who they didn't think would stay in power that long or go so far to assault reality.  Still they did send the guy out, only to watch in horror as the emissaries were attacked and their guy get blown up by Vanguard forces too.  They knew the gig was up and so did a gamble against the Blue One- attempt a disruption, so as to maybe be able to force higher autonomy.  Instead they accidentally collapsed the Vanguard and this was a big issue as Equinox had a large loyalist population that carried out a wave of terror attacks on the world in retaliation.  Domestic terror on an artificial world is not good, indeed they lost over 10% of their own population from catastrophic vacuum breaches over the course of 25 years but overall managed to persist long enough to root out their cells.  Mind this is an artificial world with over a hundred million people, so that was millions killed.  Which is hard to process given the two billion deaths planetside in the Vanguard collapse, of which didn't really dent the population of a world with 270 billion people.  That aftershock led to a more militant culture afterwards, one not terribly big fans of the Hymalites or other "surface dwellers".  They're the bastards who made the Blue One in the first place.  Still they also did claim a large network of smaller installations but avoided planetside stuff, with lunar and various inner system worlds being set to Equinox client status.  They would be the second artificial womb society and also did begin doing backup minds before other groups due to fears of the breaches the Blue avenger radicals among them could cause at "any moment". 

**Andeans**

The Andeans lived in the vast awe of geoengineering projects in the area, with weather manipulation relays in the area to preserve climate to old earth style conditions.  Many of these were to expand the Amazonian biopolis, which the Andeans managed to get ahold of in the collapse.  Community resistance against the Vanguard was constant in the area, but they had not really proven as dissident as Pacificans were or as insidious as Hymalites or as foolish as Equinox.  Instead they just wanted to not die and so they kept low and bunkered up to weather out the crisis while keeping to the codes more than other groups.  There are factions that tried to claim themselves neo-Incan but this was beyond absurd given the populations of the area in their growth and changes along with simply not even sharing cultural values of Incans outside a couple superficial things they coopted.  Either way they kept low and spring out during the great disruption where they managed to destroy a lot of installations and a lot of land, but space proved a harder thing to get.  They did end up in regional conflicts with Pacificans as well, but kept working on the autoenforcement pestilence as needed.  They're relatively stable and try to work to keep the climate stable in their hemisphere.

**Hymalites**

The Hymalites as a people formed from populations in the Vanguard who colonized the Hymalas and controlled the vast water supplies of the mountains among other things back when that was relevant.  In 2530 it is a site of mass computation, fusion energy complexes, geoengineered underground cities, sky cities and space cannons.  Needless to say the cities of the mountains have skeletons of Tibetans which is just seen as irrelevant history.  They managed a lot of claims and a large Eurasian hegemony, to the point they're regarded as an empire despite being insignificant compared to the greater interstellar scope.  However being on Earth, they still have a claim to a high density population and a 'sacredness'.  They have managed to also claim multiple orbital lanes in the inner solar system and multiple solar collection arrays in sol.  Their micro worlds include Perpetual Winter, a ring world that orbits around Mars that is rather cold.  They also made yeti-like clades, uplifted apes, octopi and such along with being one of the first Terran societies to actively systemically make use of artificial womb tech and cloning.  They had also assisted other rebel groups, with loyalists kept out of the loop.  Their more controversial tactics included drugging people  to not fear death and having a means to cry one's brain in the case of Vanguard capture, to avoid the punitive slow hells the Blue One had started to make as suicide bombers and automata subverters around the planet calling for the Vangurd's downfall clearly weren't fearing death. 

**The Pacificans**

Networks of oceanic trade between aquatic cities that had collective trauma from the Vanguard "demolishing" a dissident laden city in 2473 just for being defiant of inspection (they had been known to have hosted multiple species of uplifted animal life, augmented sea people and so on- they weren't the only world but they had the most density of such life forms).  Others refused too, and were also demolished.  They may well just kill over a billion people who just refused to cooperate and would rather martyr than destroy their own communities.  Indeed they did fight back, a lot of submarine conflicts in the Pacific broke out that involved amphibious assaults and guerrila conflicts from aquatic communities able to breathe underwater.  Still it felt more like fighting against an exterminator than a civil war.  They got mutual aid from other parts of earth, leading the Blue One to also go about killing them but that resource stretching was part of how the great disruption managed to work by accident.  And that disruption was when they declared Pacifica and consolidated many communities under water, in trenches and elsewhere just fed up with the Vanguard.  They would end up losing a third of their population but the remaining population held to the pacts as vanguard forces broke down logistically. 

**Galileans**

Galileans are the largest outer system group with people in this area less survellied but were very much under the watch of the autoenforcement systems that killed too deviant people on the spot.  Their main goals were just to claim a lot of space assets while earth had its mess as they saw the way the wind blew.  Minor factions of little note kept sovereignty anyhow.  Their cultures are pretty much around the swarm of micro worlds around the planet that they see as how they one day may outpace earth as the Sol's prime world.  They had endured a several of their micro worlds getting "demolished" by autoenforcement over massive violations of the codes in 2467, which caused them to start shooting autoenforcement systems back which led to more demolished worlds but also destroyed auto enforcers, of which were recalled to earth in 2474 regardless.

**The Swiss**

The Swiss were one of the few significant surviving nationalities that managed to reassert themselves, to much alienation to part of the population they addressed somewhat incompetently as many of these local governments refused to use what old Vanguard bureaucrats in favor of just starting from scratch and so they established a confederate cybercracy with Vanguard age arcologies in the mountains getting claimed for their new Swiss Order, which tried to also integrate more of the Medd and claim parts of the orbital latitude, a space port on the moon and pouched various client worlds that just rejected them.

#plexus 
#human 
#homeworld
#tundric 
#earthlike 
