### Geology

Xibalba is a rocky terran world with vast regions of dense, tropical craters and an interweaving of ocean and land that is non-existent on earth.  The webbed mash of terrain and sea comes as the result of violent, often unpredictable storms and the tidal stress caused by its two somewhat luna-sized moons, one of which has an atmosphere but is not hospitable to life. 

Xibalba is 5-8 Billion years old and has had simple like for 7 billion of those years along with complex life for the last billion.  This makes Darnell among one of the oldest worlds with a complex biosphere in the galaxy), and orbits the GIV class star Mu2 Cancri, the planet tragically only has seventy million years left before it is unable to sustain complex life.  Five other planets exist in the same star system, all lifeless.  Xibalba has a barren moon much like [[Earth]] with lots of tiny craters and salt deposits much like ceres.  The other worlds include a couple ice giants, a smoldering world near the parent star and a super earth completely frozen over that is soon to be a water world as the parent star of Mu2 Cancri continues to enter its giant phase. 

### Ecology

There is less speciation on Xibalba than on Earth, however what constitutes a “species” on Xibalba is much wider of a gradient in a way comparable to fruit flies and dogs.  There is on average much larger variation within a species than on Earth, to say the least. 
However, the world is still highly, highly biodiverse with hundreds of thousands of species of animals that life in the ocean and on the surface.  Amphibious life is a common sight on this world, many animals intuitively know how to swim due to the complexes of acidic bogs and floating jungles that exist in the tropical regions of the planet.  The planet is much more tropical than earth, with a higher temperature and humidity the world’s biomes pretty much consist of swamps, jungles, deserts, mountains, floating complexes and sputterlands.  

Sputterlands and Floating Complexes do not exist on earth as on Earth there is not nearly as many large floating animals who get numerous parasites as they lazily float about the large bay-like seas that appear in many parts of the planet. 

Instead of grass, the world is floored in bulbous filaments that collectively stretch across the whole planet much like a massive, massive population of mold.  When cut, the mold will not regrow, but instead reconnect itself.  The mold decomposes on dead life and exists in many parts of the world, with various “breeds” from place to place.  This mold can make sputterland at times, which are biomes full of acidic pools and predatory mold.  Sputterlands tend to be no-go zones due to the chlorine pumped into the atmosphere by them and are responsible for two mass extinctions on the planet, should sputterlands grow unchecked on Xibalba.  Thankfully mechanisms such as sputtervorous species adapted to the chlorine accented biomes the sputterlands make and windstorms have kept the sputterland from terraforming the world into a chloric hellhole.  If this planet had a much less volatile climate and much less adaptive species, this world would likely be a chloric mold world by now. 

Various eusocial organisms on this world come in very, very dense populations and tend to be rather big.  They haven’t should the ability to advance or self-modify their genomes in the way more sophisticated eusocials have been able to.  These organisms are the closest thing the world has to intelligent life, and indeed they are quite hostile to any would-be xenobiologist sampling the world despite being philosophical zombies with some semblance of culture but a lack of any real language.  They have a counting system and many ritual dances, but they only interact by pheromones and clicking sounds and have not shown the ability to abstract tool use or philosophize.   

Despite being somewhat habitable, due to the aging star colonizing it has generally been viewed as ill-advised.  There are pushes to find a new home for the life of Xibalba however.  The issue is with the Sputterlands that complicate everything, as the wrong world could mean a mass extinction off the bat due to bad weather patterns.  The Sputterlands also happen to be too important to the Xibalbian biosphere to simply include in any arks

#plexus
#biosphere
