
Prospect spacers remain more balanced with humans at least

But the tech of the architects is a bit obscene, the sprawl even more so.

￼

The Glinnvyr as a species already had an elaborate lore base you know. Their essential biology remains the same, with the PoD being the circumstances of their transcending path towards the stars.

Let us pull it up from the depths of time.

In ancient Glinnvyr Mythology there were beings known as the Prismatics.

￼

￼

￼

￼

Rothko paintings perhaps are one way of trying to loosely imagine the kind of sentimental power the prismatics hold in their civilization. It is unclear where they actually are on a theological perspective, as there is no convenient analog for what these are. They are almost call symbols, yet on some level deeper in the implication they present to those exposed to them.

Ancient Glinnvyr civilization was completely dominated by the associations who unified around the prismatic, with the peculiar aspect that such associations were built on sentimental conformity to the inner knowledge of the apotheosis which they represent. There is no kinship with the glinnvyr, one's birth never correlated to where one was associated to prismatic entities and such colorful force was in part the product of the Harlapan Wave revelations.

￼

It is speculated that aurora borealis on their world may have in part inspired the existence of the prismatic thoughts. The power of which, would crystallize within the realms even as many other glinnvyr just escaped into the void, unable and unwilling to associate with anything in a local sector. They would travel even with the simple warp systems of what to humans would be 3100 BC hundreds of light years just to link up with aligned sentiments, if not vanish into deep thought metamorphosis to ponder out the problems of their current civilization and create the compelling modulations which were viewed as absent. Glinnvyr tech at the time was much more in-Situ in nature, with comets and dwarf planets being colonized while energy collectors harvested from the inner star. Indeed even the glinnvur would be attracted to the OB associations in their part of the galaxy in their work to create advanced computation systems that did tasks seemingly just to seek ever more deeper into the prismatic realm. Indeed such work ended up creating simulations and altercations to local volumes of space to aesthetically reflect those prismatic principles. Even local sapients were pulled towards the aesthetic orbit of the prismatic principles that emerged. The Asantum were the most notable case of this, convergent with the Molulating Prism in their fixation on A post-shock incident from the sprawl proved a destabilizing effect in 2915 BC. But By 2700 BC the first world moving projects were carried out using fusion candles as collaborative efforts between the prismatic associations, the first step in the elaborate tradition of re-arranging planets in star systems for geometric intricacies impossible in nature. Much of this ancient history is still vividly recalled, however simplified in form. The first subterfuge activities also had occurred in the ancient time period of the glinnvyr realms, however individualized such rivalries were in practice. Centuries long projects carried out at the time were evidently a mixture of surviving the residual dangers of what by 2500 BC was the sprawl. A lot of questions on societal developments are unclear at these times, as the scattered nature of the glinnvyr allowed them to wander in ways peculiar to most civilizations. There is some convergence of ethical norms that these glinnvyr, however divergent in their clades, seemingly observed;

-Symbolic protocol systems that are loosely standardized.

-A general low hostility climate, they usually just hail and move on after a brief information exchange to scan for potential alignments for the formation of associations.

-Reproduction is usually done loosely and sporadically with both glinnvyr being fertilized in the encounter. It is reductive to declare glinnvyr hemethrodites, as what is going on with their gametes is much stranger than simply shared reproductive roles. It is like the have as many biological sexes as glinnvyr do. This has led to the wide variations of glinnvyr dimorphisms, evidently akin to personalized biological sexes.

-Glinnvyr go through metamorphic phases, with the first phase being a mind incubation phase where an individualized almost mentor-student relationship already exists.

-At some point they part ways instead of form families

This period of time is known to have ended around 2340 BC, when the consolidations of dreaming associations managed to give a larger social organization to even the more individualized glinnvyr and by this point, post-glinnvyr. These Dreaming Associations were cracking into the problem of wormholes, grapple drives and such. They also had been creating dyson beams, as they had empowered an entity they encountered in their part of the galaxy known as the Burner. The Burner Association would form in 2200 BC after a restructuring of various groups from the ideals of the burner association becoming dominant. The Burner Association came to despise the Sprawl itself and was so convinced of the need to rid the galaxy of the sprawl based on what the burner had told them of the sprawl or otherwise indoctrinated them to think (not helping was the ongoing frustration in handling sprawl automata at the time).

The Burner was armed by the glinnvyr (along with their associate species, the Asantum) to the point it became a nicoli dyson beam in 1900 BC. The first such device used for war in many millennia. The Burner's greatest surprise however was it was made warp capable. The other surprise was other dreaming associates intervened against the Burners in the 1700's BC in what was known as the Cathartic Intervention as even other associations for their own reasons despised the sprawl. The problem was that they did a simple logical extrapolation anyone with common sense did- which led to the conclusion the burners were compromised by some collective mental illness. That extrapolation being that the sprawl was known to already Be over thirty thousand years ancient. The glinnvyr only became space faring two thousand years ago. There was no way that the sprawl would fall to a device like this, even if it would have in theory be enough to wipe out an entire galaxy of planet bounded life (that such development never happened only gave credence to the notion something else was at play). So fearing the potential of retribution from higher orders of reality (whether or not such a thing would be the case) or merely the defense systems of the sprawl, there was a conspiracy hatched against the burner in the greatest act of sabotage seen to this point where multiple infiltrators who had quasi-subsumed as Burners awakened to suicide bomb the structure with micronovas and even attack the star itself. This was a destabilizing action that caused the Burner Wars where many groups just attacked the burner basically at once, groups the burner didn't think would attack due to the burner falsely believing they agreed the sprawl should burn. They did. They just didn't see the burner as up to the task. The glinnvyr proved not interested in compromising their whole civilization in the name of the petty revenge plots of the few remaining tarpoids for atrocities so ancient that oil canal carving with a bond pair was still seen as the highest achievement possible.

￼

The Burner's enhancements from the Burning Association would have allowed it to do some harm to the sprawl, but not enough... too much in place just for this kind of device.

In the wake of the Cathartic Intervention, the other Dreaming Ones who were not wiped out by either the Burner or being a Burner had peered into the cosmic past. They uncovered disturbing realities about the Sprawl, indeed about the Virgo, Tarpoids and Harlapa as well as the pieces all began to align to form a higher call to cosmic existence. That is that this universe is basically hell and there are higher realms than this plane of existence- the downfall of the sprawl, in their understanding, was a failure to break out of existence. This belief system was a radical one at the time, with associations that converged on this reality being seen as the next potential burners and so regularly dealt with persecution and preemption from the groups who believed the cosmic harmonies were grand. The very cosmovisions were in constant disalignment. And individual glinnyr making fiefdoms and experiments continued, to at times dangerous results.

Such dangers would be mostly outpaced by the collapse of the realms in general, of which did not happen in violence. It just happened because many Glinnvyr had simply lost interest in the associations and so dispersed. The lingering prisms were displaced by glinnvyr who sought to maximize the punishments and glinnvyr that sought unity in assuring individual sovereignty. The former glinnvyr were vicious raiders to other groups, the latter were mostly peaceful. The Asantum at this time had expanded, using the modulus as their example and refusing to abandon the idea even as so many others did. Many sapients were known of by the glinnvyr, such as Jayapossas and Somber Hydras but it would take the Asantum outreach to see such species part of the fold in any way as the Asantum were the most vocal inter species actors. Many glinnvyr just kept to deep thought, attended to by personal silicoid automata and other such crystalline adaptive foams. It is this deep thinking that is said to be where spatial squeezing and stretching were figured out, along with a range of barrier systems and energy sources that would necessitate the creation of the mountain of plates in 1400 BC. These deep thinkers also had done a lot of work infiltrating the sprawl and finding tons of information on various societies around the galaxy. Most notable at the time being how the Harlapa have become space faring. Such information would come in handy later. The creation of Ovatar was a part of another movement in these centuries where greater thinkers were seen as needed and the power of a super intelligent mind was appealing. Ovatar and The Dreaming One would be the two main such systems to actually achieve their goals, with multiple other attempts instead creating entities known as Statics who had to be left mostly alone as they did little other than endless thinking about vast elaborate projects. The art and culture in this age of thoughts, dreams and pondering was one of vast highly detailed aesthetics known for being internal systems which replicated metamorphic sentiments. Indeed it was an age of metamorphosis in the minds of the glinnvyr who had by this point become already widespread. Such unpairing of the physical and contortions of the metaphysical however, did lead to some complications. The Vitani Epidemic which lasted from 1100-970 BC was a massive hindering as it was a thought based plague and the glinnvyr couldn't stop researching exceedingly esoteric inquiries for decades on end. It became all about what Vitani is, all the time. It had to be addressed. Such swarms of mutating reality perturbing entities were a manifestation of something advanced civilizations come across as they begin to deal with the fabric of reality, they knock into what living and dead even means, what sentience even is. It only gets worse from there.

￼

[[Ovatar's Realm]] arose in the late dream era experiments with megacomputational arrays with hyperspatial latticework that was the basis for the being known as Ovatar and the Zarasthustra it created. Ovatar arose in 1200 BC and had mostly kept to the open cluster that it called its realm. It was here the Karko had been uplifted as well. The One Who Breaks is said to have been running from Ovatar, as the Glinnvyr cultists who acted as the midwives of Ovatar's creations couldn't stand The One Who Breaks. The pursuit was a long one, but one which would in 520 BC contact the Aveterriat and what happened next is well documented in other notes (see Inshan). Ovatar around 600 BC tried to liberate the hell realms but failed. The Aveterriat expanded around the same time, showing enough tech to actually keep up. Their metallurgy was obscenely good and it is evident they were advancing mostly in their system until the one who breaks destroyed that sense of security. The Protectorate's interstellar colonies were spread out instead of densely packed. The Aveterriat expansion was an event that the Glinnvyr struggled to handle more than the OWB would have suggested, the Aveterriat had technological asymmetries from their past planetary developments. The obscene advancements the glinnvyr had were not leveraged against the Aveterriat, in part because the Aveterriat had mostly just avoided the Glinnvyr and set colonies to worlds and star systems lacking in Glinnvyr activity. There was also just no consensus of coherent policy at all with the Aveterriat. Their technology was advanced for a planetary civ, they had after all managed to elude the Glinnvyr for centuries and the OWB had to scour the system for months before even noticing such advanced civilization. They knew there was a nuclear war there, but they didn't realize how advanced the underground descendents actually got. Geothermal power with nuclear and fusion reactors, dug down dozens of kilometers. Earthquakes powered their cities. They had the capacity for space travel for centuries... but didn't use it. They did however have tons and tons of deterrence nukes, as the OWB found out first hand.

The Aveterriat, with the pressure to expand into space as they had no other option and believed their extinction eminent (to be fair, the Glinnvyr had a record of making nicoli dyson beams so that is hardly a "nice society" signal). The Aveterriat FTL system, the Skip Drives, had apparently been historically used for surveys in prior centuries (850 BC evidently) and the data they brought back caused massive internal disputes within the protectorate. They opted to dig in and advance without any way for the society out there to know, for they were paranoid and had a mindset which didn't lead to the attitude that say, fosskemians or humans would in this situation. Regardless, seeing a narrow time window the Aveterriat made seed ships they sent out with the intent of being scattered to distant systems. Yet with a strict system of conformity in place as the intention remained one of securing the eternal labor of life, of which with the cosmology now in full view and access led to Aveterriat who dreamed of impossible possibilities with regard to what other beings hold in them. The Aveterriat colonies spread to places glinnvyr had only sparingly gone. For the next several centuries the architect was mostly at peace despite the trepidation of another interstellar civilization emerging from a horribly botched first contact. This long peace as it was known was believed to be a mix of efforts by large associations that had emerged at the time. Ovatar's fall had happened in 271 BC from Ovatar committing suicide. The rashness of this action is believed to be a mixture of factors in the depression Ovatar had lapsed into it the tail end of its existence. It regarded itself as a failure and despite there being peace, knew its legacy to be one of failed ventures from the failure to stop the OWB to the ongoing experiments it did on the Karko and continued suffering of the hell realm. The fall lead to the civil wars among the crystalline beings over the loss. The Karko would spread from this, a silicate empire would rupture from Ovatar's domain.

￼

By 100 BC the peace had ended. The perfectionist demands of the post-Ovatarites had led them to clash with the established glinnvyr entities along with their continued struggles against the hell realm. Aveterriat societies would mostly be isolationist or form confederate entities that existed as mutual defense pacts by the Determining and the Machinist clades. The strangeness of Aveterriat colonies came from the imperfections and slight deviations from the home world. The home world never was actually attacked, but this didn't sway them much. They built up vast stellar defenses, with Vast amounts of RKM dead hands and such. The Protectorate's build up was seen as useless, the Glinnvyr didn't have clear targets to hit. It wasn't even clear what they were even arming against at the time, or their actual intent to "recall" the colonies. The long peace from 600 BC to 470 AD was not as uneventful as it could have been- null swarm outbreaks within Aveterriat colonies, the Glinnvyr infiltration of the sprawl and Harlapa raider issues were things at the time. It was also contemporary to that time the mess of the pre-Cobalt Prospect Space was going on. Simulation experiments within the Architectural Ones also had been underway.

￼

The Aveterriat and their attempts at silicon based AIs resulted in null swarms. These colonies fell and machinists from other colonies intervened against them, other Glinnvyr forces that be did as well when needed if only to not have to deal with such blight. The systems in place often knocked apart the misalignment syndrome from the ticking problem and the labor crises that led to such null swarms. The liability of these null swarms led to multiple colonies rebelling or otherwise just ridding the determiner system. The success rate was around 10%, in part because Machinists didn't want the null swarms happening to them either. It would turn out these null swarms were a kill switch that their home world had secretly implanted as a switch they could flip from a distance for the recalling. The colonies broke from their system, having to build new systems of governance estranged from the convenience of the determiner caste societies. Some of these colonies just did a new AI system for the determiner, leading to variants and systems not liable to the kill switch. The home world in their insularity had led this go on for an entire century before they found out in 467 AD. The Protectorate survey sweeps in the past had given lots of red flags but there was hesitance to do much in part because there were parties in the protectorate at the time that let them see such deviations as tolerable price to pay in exchange for less risk of their kind going extinct. However by 460 AD it was clear they just were lost, and any alien empire would find all these colonies either way. The venture was deemed too pointless and the radical groups on the home world had prevailed in the argument as it was known. The Great Recall was enacted, as was a range of actions against colonies that deviated too much. Only 35% of the Aveterriat colonies were annihilated by the null swarm waves intentionally let loose by the command. In some stances they intercepted the calling ship in vain, but by than had interstellar presence and the resources to knock apart the null swarm. Other colonies were less lucky. They went extinct and the saturation of null swarms across a large swathe of Aveterriat dominated spaces was overwhelming. Thousands of star systems across hundreds of light years flooded. The Protectorate also struck at the colonies with kill fleets against all the colonies that terminally deviated. It basically became a civil war across their kind, with unfortunate species like the Jayapossa, Onpariat, Polino and Octimanos being collateral sapients of such conflict. Jayapossa lucked out in being in Modulus volumes as well, the other groups not so much. The Protectorate Wars of the 470's were catastrophically bad, the Glinnvyr seemingly just indifferent to the affair despite some members getting involved with any group. They had less existential stakes. The Protectorate despite their advantages and first strike would find they were fighting a losing war, the recall failing as the colonies just proved far more resilient and dedicated in their continued existence. The decade long war was brutal in general, as it was a total war with interstellar technology. 

Many Aveterriat just gave up on planetary colonies in favor of spinning Dumbell structures, others had transcended centuries ago to Wisps or The Mind of Sarvas. Others however, had designs in a remaking of Aveterriat existence from the world of Vmisk which survived a protectorate RKM strike by dwelling in the deep crust oceans of Vmisk which boiled from the RKM strike but it was a bearable boiling. Their machinist cabal would emerge into the slagged surface, in the scorching heat and declare themselves liberated. Their secession conflict against the Long Confederation happened as the protectorate war was winding down and a ceasefire was achieved. The Vmisk Machinists were uniquely powerful beings by the standards of machinists, they were using technology so obscene they managed to bunker against an RKM strike. This was also due to the substrates they utilized, they just could temper and diffuse the heat. How much of this myth is true is not clear, as the Vmiskii Aveterriat at the time had a lot of defenses at bay that fought the kill fleet back even if they did RKM the planet Vmisk. Such tech would be the basis of the most advanced metallurgy seen yet. By 560 AD, the Vmiskii had formed and the next round of troubles began as their forces sought to unify the colonies around their brand of totalitarian labor meritocracy, of which would over the centuries come to even include other species.

￼

￼

￼

￼

#Glinnvyr 
#timeline 
#Architect 