
For one, we see in effect a radical and extreme shift in human civilization in response to the reality of advanced civs around them.  Humans used to be purists on their biology, strict augmentation codes and such.  This was back when they took the hart conjecture as an article of faith when dealing with human futures.  Post-Golden Swarm however humans rapidly shifted towards the opposite extreme and became an extremely machine oriented civilization to the point one of the largest factions is a gestalt civilization of neural tribal census hyper democracies and the other is a hierarchical system built on a notion of endless upgrades and a power balance between powerful military forces full of automatic kill machines along with BCI drone swarm cyborg infantry being standard issue, populist dominated world states where even homeless people have cybernetics and machinery in their bodies if not already have layers of metal atop their softer flesh cores and virtual realms. 

This created a deep fracture in the human species despite the consolidations between the prior conflicts of factions in the 2400's to early 2600's, the Winter of Systems as it is sometimes known.  The chaotic, yet colorful time period saw huge changes from the prior periods as mentioned already.  One such incident involved the Ikirmi who under the Vanguard were left alone by indifferent loyalists who just didn't want to deal with those "forever trapped in their own prison" in the fringes of the Alpha Cassiopeia star system where it was clear Ikirma was a trapped rogue planet who would have had significant geological disruptions around 77 million years ago... of which destabilized the ecology in ways that allowed for the eventual development of intelligent life like the Ikirmites.   The system as one so close to earth meant Ikirmites would hold claim to being the closest intelligent life to earth.  Indeed astrobiologists who managed to study their world found so many revelations about alien intelligence it drove them "mad", or so the claims of the Vanguard loyalists who murdered the illegal astrobiology expedition that rushed to the world and did their research on a very short time table in 2401.  They broke the policy of the area and the world had a defense grid built around it that warded off future potential compromises for decades pending approval for a proper sanctioned expedition... an approval that never came.  Why the Vanguard didn't purge the world is merely one of conjecture- Ice world primitives were all too easy to contain and they weren't going to leave any time soon.  And it would have also been a contact violation to massacre life on alien worlds, indeed that was the norm from the Vanguard as Xeno policy extrapolated from the hart conjecture only alien critters existed and so without clear guidance Ikirma was de facto quarantined.  However the fall of the Vanguard in that star system led to a contact being made around 2512 where the mega corporate entity that took over the system.  The Void Divers were basically a corporation that formed around the fall and were very much an entity interested in the biological makeup of subglacial worlds where prior expedition activity found vast arrays of abyssal biotech and so set their sights on the snowball world of Ikirma.  The interstellar corporation easily subverted the old and outdated defense grid, but it was still a space war as the subversion was noticed and so despite managing to get the jump on the grid meant retaliation from the automata occurred.  It was a brutal space conflict in orbit of Ikirma, the Breacher War occurred in 2513. 

The Breacher War was a violent altercation more than first thought- there was humans stationed even many decades after the vanguard's fall on that world who refused to accept the vanguard's fall and further more saw the Void Diver corps as evil for trying to break into the world.  So they took their stand against the Breachers, however technologically outmatched they were.  The orbital fortress made around the world would resist for months.  The ultra loyalists had to go into the icy shell.  They needed to make the costs of this contact hurt.  Within they made contact with the Ikirma, they inevitably would.  The Ikirmites had already a shockingly advanced civilization under the shell.  Not advanced enough to deal with the Void Divers, but it horrified them.  They had all this time let them mire under the shell, in ignorance.  For centuries.  The revelation was one of despair, knowing how they had wanted to use them as hostages.  This caused a second internal conflict to break out in the left over loyalist group on the world, a glacial crust altercation broke out from devout loyalists and those who got cold feet when met with intelligences and "misplaced empathy".  This would be what the Void Divers used to break onto the world finally, forcing the surrender in what had spiraled into a proxy vanguard remnant-post collapse society skirmish.  The grid shut down, the loyalists that were left surrendered and Ikirmites were having internal troubles of their own from the ontological crisis that the breach caused.  The hot spot and nomadic [[ikirmites]] came at he issue from many vectors as they used their current based computation systems to analyze the surface and the Breacher beings.  It had been long known there was a vast realm outside the world with potentially other places like this one as detected gravitational perturbations had shown- it was just assumed out of reach forever. 

In truth there was a vast eternity under the icy floor.  The vacuum realms, the breach beings who surrounded them in numbers and advancements they couldn't begin to process.  And still their Aquarian tech... with what billions of ikirmi there are... could be nothing to these beings whose breaches may have killed 2% of their population as collateral.  Many ikirmi simply dreaded the inevitable, some just preparing to leave to the core of existence by crashing themselves into volcanos, others just not sure what was going to happen.  The breachers met seemed peaceful despite the violence their detection systems noticed.  And than their metal ambassadors arrived- evidently of some construction separate from the breachers.  The Breacher-1 entity.  Some Ikirmites sought to "contain" the breachers with defenses rigged on the floor to intercept them and force them back out.  Doing so proved futile, the drills could be slowed but this just led to them using more advanced means to breach.  What cap of advancement they were at, the Ikirmi didn't know.  Their miasma of societies just took such a chaotic, scattered approach to the problem it may have made contact already a Lost cause.  The Void Divers eventually did manage to communicate properly, taking years of contact miscommunication and incidents to do so with the limited tech they had at hand.  But it proved worth it.  The Void Divers would make a deal with the Ikirmites- they wanted miners.  They wanted abyss civ tech, to build mining colonies for them elsewhere.  They would take them to those worlds.  All they had to do was give them some minerals and bio resources.  At the time it seemed like a steal, the Ikirmi oblivious to how the mineral mining was not what they really cared of.  What the Void Divers actually wanted was pieces of their civilization exported elsewhere to be farmed.  This was not allowed to be clear and the loyalists turned PoW who objected were sent off after a memory wipe where they were stood that earth wanted them to return and the vanguard needs them there as soon as possible- just a mere 40 year trip.  They were given dated warp tech and sent off in an interstellar transit barge with Ikirmi stowaways and what came of them would also back fire. 

The Void Divers over the next several decades (2570's?) spread the Ikirmi to many star systems as a de facto labor force for abyssal biotech, where the horrid truth of bio harvesting they intended would happen many light years from home.  A truth their world of Ikirma would be in the dark of, until  another entity competing with the Void Divers- the Consortium- intervened at Ikirma to sell them goods for those bio resources.  Goods the Void Divers briefly allowed under a thin ice policy with the merchant guild consortiumites who had high trust due to staying a neutral actor even with ongoing altercations, not wanting another conflict to break out at Ikirma.    The Consortium gave them warp travel independent of the Void Divers and even smuggled Tikali diplomats under the guise of a novelties merchant.  The Void Divers caught this too late (I.e on landing) to take much action without unwanted escalations and so just silently monitored the situation.  Tensions erupted at the Ikirma aquapolis of Kiknurs, the great hub of novelty shops Ikirmi industrialists and bioturgists that appeared post-Breacher contact.  The Tikali diplomat known as Sibun Trumo struggled somewhat with the pressure of not only the higher pressure depths of Ikirma but also the tensions the Ikirmi had in seeing this strange aquatic Breacher who overwhelmed them with endless questions, causing the diplomat to ask many questions and all they could do was ask endless questions about everything leading to a lot of information being compromised by both sides.  The most important ones included;

1. the Ikirmites were secretly plotting a deterrence system the whole time.  They had managed to even figure out how to make hypersonic torpedos loaded with fusion material they kept hidden in the core

2. The Ikirmite factions have known of the Void Diver caprice for decades already through intercepted commands

3. The Ikirmites had known of humans since the vanguard research teams, but played stupid with the Void divers.  They think they outmaneuvered the void divers into letting them have more autonomy in the colonies than what they would have with a "smarter" display that'd have had them more monitored.

4. They are not many factions at all.  They were unified since the 2400's and had centralized organizations that had worked to contain the breachers.  The Breacher war breaking it was sooner than expected

5. The Void Divers had been harvesting ikirmites to use as abyssal settlements for humans mostly, but there were tikali exploiting it to as ikirmite colonies became a widespread good across the civic

6. The void divers had intended to purge ikirmite populations at some undisclosed point- this was regarded as Consortium propaganda and no affirmation of this point has truly been found other than the Void Divers being bad at PR.

7. The Void Divers had a war with the consortium as they had allied against the Consortium with the Regnants and the Eridani.  The Consortium had won against the Regnant but the Eirdanis and Void Divers would continue the tensions for decades afterwards.  The merchant  guild consortium has been widely trusted despite all this, until now.  The Void Divers would not like to know what the consortium had handed the Ikirmi

8. The Tikali that worked with the Consortium did so under the expectation of similar alliance in the future

9. The Void Divers have a weakening position due to also coming to blows with the Domain of Kus and the Sol Protectorate

10. The Consortium's other guilds wanted to cause chaos for the Void Divers by handing the Ikirmi warp drive capabilities despite the lack of clear way to use them. 

Sibun Trumo's actions basically ruined a lot of plots on multiple sides unintentionally.  Despite all this they still did give the Ikirmi warp capabilities and anti-matter missiles adapted to aquatic travel with drilling charges.  They also gave them deep sea fusion power and an AI system to help manage it all accompanied with other sorts of tikali tech.  The Void Divers promptly destroyed the landing vessel and sent in their forces.  They had seen enough.  The expedition in the depths had to fight on limited resources in what would become the Ikirma war of independence from that rash destruction of a merchant guild spaceship.  The conflict became one to get a relay ship away from the system somehow.  The ikirma forced an independence deal out of Sibun Trumo in the situation.  What they did was basically a massed assault on one area with diversion strikes to hack into Void Dover drones and than from there compromise an orbital station in a rapid "leap" to make it hard to target them.  The void diver and consortium sleeper agents in the depths activated and it became basically became chaos across multiple cities with Ikirmi armies awakening and the Ikirmi turning out to have quite the forces, more than what was initially anticipated by the Ikirmi sleeper agents who never had that kind of entwinement into the deeper manifold.  Their aquanautics made use of a lot of reversed engineered tech, forged in ancient volcanic tubes etched into the core using cruder automata than what the merchant guild associates of the consortium had brought in.  This led to a situation where there wasn't much time to act, only a few weeks.  Any longer and more void diver forces would arrive.  And it was hard to say if they would kill them all once they did.  So they acted fast- pulling off Operation Yin Kitsnik (named after an Ikirmi who tried to breach the floor glacier and survived to return to talk of the void out there) successfully.  They got to the orbital station and managed to hijack a relay ship stationed on the station with the defense turrets shut off.  The interstellar space nature of the area meant a relay ship didn't have to travel far at all to make a warp jump, escaping before other defenses could destroy the relay ship.  The relay ship linked up with the nearby stationed consortium vessels in an adjacent star system- many stars were just plain not used much with the percolating nature of warp drive colonization. A property that was regularly exploited by a range of civilizations.  They were useful as places to link up relay ships for infiltration missions.  The IFF on the consortium ships didn't cause the Void Diver relay ship as one doesn't attack a relay ship automatically but they still target them pending anomalous energy signatures.  As is, even when sent by the enemy it is to communicate diplomatically.  They got the data of the Trumo incident and the destruction of a merchant guild vessel under insufficient cause.  They would relay that message to other consortium outposts within months.  A new altercation was about to begin. 

Of course those at Ikirma didn't have months, only weeks.  So work was done to fortify the world against boiling and slagging, many fortifications, bunkers and such were set up with surviving Void Diver and Consortium entities kept under surveillance and questioning/cooperation depending on how much manifold loyalty they were viewed as having.  Sibun Trumo managed to be the closest one due to being too honest for their own good.  The long struggle against the void diver forces that arrived proved harsh, but it was immediately clear they still expected to keep the ikirmites alive.  Their diplomats kept demanding surrenders and to extradite Sibun Trumo along with their collaborators in exchange for more favorable terms.  The manifold refused and the siege continued.  They tried mostly infiltration and assassination, injuring Sibun Trumo a month in and killing 283 Consortium collaborators along with thousands of Ikirmi charted as important.  This was somewhat demoralizing at first, but other ikirmites rose to the cause with dread the relay ship never made it seeping in.  Some ikirmites did try to negotiate with the Void Divers separately but were cut down by other factions who undermined their terms.  This infighting the void divers tried to use to break them, but the ikirmites held strong against it.  The Void Divers would at some point breach the world however, taking the city of Tikunis with aggrieved Ikirmi pissed about the other factions undermining a Potential peace.  This is when the use of the hypersonic torpedos came into play, mainly launched at attempts to spread out but by this point the foothold forced a large war within Ikirma that saw lots more death.  The horror of it made quite a few ikirmites turn on the consortium forces there, with Sibun Trumo put into confinement as the independence ikirmites took over operations completely as to them the consortium's advice let to the breaches to begin with.  The Tikunis massacre, the vulcan crusades and the gardens of death all came into play, only for tomorrow to be when the Consortium reinforcements arrived and destroyed the orbital forces of the Void Divers.  A broader war broke out between the Consortium and Void Divers once more in the intervening month for evidently unrelated reasons.  This meant the destruction was vast now.  It is estimated this siege and the Tikunis massacre with it led to 12% of the ikirmite population dying.  A clear decimation.  A billion dead Ikirmites for what?  A diplomat's misstep?  So it seemed.

Sibun Trumo would be returned to those consortium forces to be dealt with separately while the Ikirmites continued to go for independence, the deal Trumo had promised.  Turned out the Consortium guild that was here was not the merchant guild but the defense guild and they had no interest in honoring that agreement- they wanted Ikirma under protectorate status but did keep the right to independent warp travel for the Ikirma who saw that as a favorable enough condition with the added amendment that they had Ikirmi navigators and AI.  They didn't trust the other ships much. 

And for another forty or so years that was the bulk of it.  The Void Divers went defunct not too long after, subsumed by the Assembly as the latest rising human force and the Ikirmites built free colonies in various unused Star systems while others tried to re-link contact with surviving bio resource colonies including some that did revolt... but failed.  They found horrifying results there.  The kind Ikirma would have been dealt if it wasn't for the home world status of Ikirma or the consortium presence.  The bleach worlds.  Of which became part of the disturbed legacy of the Void Divers, along with their biolabs, flesh automata made from humans and mass exploitation of ikirmites other factions shamefully took part in even as they condemned it later.  But the bleach worlds stand as a monument to how humans at times, resorted to the same kind of atrocity that the golden swarm had dealt all too often.  Copying what evil was wrought onto them to victims of their own. 

The Consortium's fall would lead to the protectorate world of Ikirma being made a client world of the Assembly, with an ikirmite representative as part of their idealistic system.  Humans by 2640 were not the humans of 2575.  65 years had past, Ikirma had technologically managed to catch up under the protectorate status the Consortium had allowed them and the Ikirmite manifold saw the Assembly as the new manager and at least this time they're regarded as part of a federation.  The world of Ikirma by 2640 had become a thriving construct, post-singularity advancement had been achieved and they had even made virtual connections.  Much lamentation still occurring over the reality they may never be a truly free species like humans or tikali who had more control over their destiny.  The various ikirmite worlds that connected to ikirma created a manifold far, far greater than any an ikirma a mere century prior could comprehend.  [[The Manifold]] became a super intelligence. Icy world cores became the site of vast server systems using tikali modified tech and lots of retrofitted Ikirmi ecological tech made into complexes of self organizing systems.  The centuries of work had paid off and Ikirmites became one of the common sapients of the Civic along with the Rasuu, Natvyr and others.  They felt some sympathy with them, on the civic identity freed of human or tikali hegemony.  The discourse of Assembly hegemony was a contentious one as they would find with the Vurmarian independence movements or the ongoing integration of Assembly bureaucracy into every day life.  They noticed how the systems tried to be impartial, on the condition it is their systems being used and not systems like the manifold that almost seemed regarded as a rogue agent within their Plexus even as they tried to force the ikirma manifold into their framework.  Some humans, tikali and such did subsume to the manifold instead, but this was rare compared to the Ikirmi all too willing to adopt Assembly systems and indoctrinate themselves to it.  

Such internal divides were slow compared to those that came before, with old aquapoli like Kiknurs being historical preserve sites by 2677.  By 2700 the Ikirmites remained in their weird sub-civilizational existence, even coming across subglacial beings they would deal with perhaps too much as equals.  They came across a subglacial world mind and multiple far more primitive subglacial societies with a doctrine of communication and progressive integration.  At times the Assembly got in the way, other times the Minavans did.  The manifold as a whole was none too happy with it, seeing such constraints as laughable knowing the failings of past human and tikali contacts with less advanced societies.  At the very least the Ikirmi saw it, they can learn from them and do it better.  And with the oceanic world mind known as Stargi they did.  Stargi was contacted in 2685 by the manifold's long shot expeditions seeking to find, unite and preserve subglacial life.  Stargi was technologically uplifted with some guidance, much to the ire of the [[Virtue Coalition]].  The Stargi uplift was weird in how Stargi turned out to be way more than anyone bargained for.  An apparent legacy of the Sprawl, it gave knowledge of ancient sprawl life never known of.  By 2720 it had to make peace with the VC and Assembly but it did so on its own terms as an independent entity.   It had brought to the table sprawl tech that warded off the VC attempts to quarantine it.  And the Ikirmi manifold sent their own forces there, acting as de facto Assembly ambassadors whether they liked that fact or not. So they had to be delicate as the VC's census had to be persuaded to not strike Stargi down.  This was managed, as the VC people just came to like Stargi for their own reasons.  Stargi proved charismatic, which made Stargi polarizing as Stargi troubles continued for decades as a celebrity within the civic imparting strange wisdom from the past.  The Ikirmi never could manage that kind of maneuver, their society was too cryptic by design.  The warmth of Stargi eluded them.  But there were those Ikirmi that became followers of Stargi regardless, while the Manifold cut ties with Stargi by 2730.  The weird near tension of the Stargi Uplift was regarded as an episode in the centuries long rivalry between the Assembly and VC.   One that may have been a false comfort with the midnight war that happened just a decade later. It also was when the VC liberalized its xenodiplomacy.

#incident
#ikirmite 
#plexus 