
The consulate unified and mind controlled their populations using hallucinating grids that further limited the potential of their civilization with the immortals at the core of their civilization having lived to the present from millennia ago. The functions and activities within the Phidian space are remarkably unified and coordinated despite the dissidence of the cinderites. There was a several outbreaks, but the pattern mostly is concentrated to the rim and aggressively cracked down on by the immortal overlords who monitor all of phidian space.

[[Phidians]] do not count like us, instead they go by Credulous Cycles of which are translated to be 1.762 thousand years by human timing.  Earlier phidian activities are not defined by the Credulous Cycles.  

## (0-1762) The first Credulous Cycle.

In the waxing and waning of the old chaos of the world known by humans as Phidias the end of history was achieved. The first credulous cycle was established by the sweep, an event where the numerous shells and hovels of Phidian mega colonies were unified. It was however clear that expansion was a must, even as much as the core cabal of the unification drugs spread through the drinking fluids and pools to ensure conformity knew expansion would risk deviation from the perfect crystal state of civilization they aspired to. Part of the cause was a disturbing discovery- the presence of the sprawl. The Phidians believed they needed to expand outwards and create many buffers against this alien force immediately. However they didn't. Because they had fixated their tech more in deterrence with their tech stagnating in most other fields and mind control systems causing a narrowed scope of research by the ruling force of Phidian society. This was a long process, over a thousand years as they perfected their first wave of deterrence tech in the form of relativistic kill missiles that constantly orbit a Phidian system.

## (1762-3524) The second credulous cycle

The second credulous saw greater expansion and the worst fears of the Phidian counsulate realized. The vast megacolonial groups of Phidians that grew on more and more star systems led to a constant effort to better mind control tech, with additional deterrence systems continuing to be developed in the form of ever more RKMs as the first major Cinderite disaster in 2108 led to the use of deterrence tech against Cinderite compromised star systems. This was a hundred year long extermination campaign as cinderites spread and so had to be hunted down at times for thousands of light years. Indeed Phidians would get known of by the Vusidian Dominion due to one of these runner incidents from the Scattermush disaster in the 3400th year. The absurd stability outside of this was evident, with the immortals that kept this drone conformity having mostly used Byzantine general-type solutions to hold an absolute conformity that the cinderites had still managed to crack at times, part of why the second order fallback of annihilating a rogue system if it is not under control by turning the RKMs made to deter outside civs on their own worlds. Otherwise all was nice and well. They were enemies of the eternal utopia, they had to die. Other efforts looking for other potential threats besides the sprawl found in effect, the Vusidian Dominion whose rapid expansion terrified them and led them to consider a strike. However the cabal turned against the idea because they didn't want the disruptive potential of a war that goes that far to that distant a civ even with mind control- they didn't want the mind control formulas risking compromise by a civ they knew to have advanced biotech and so they instead amplified their antimatter production faculties while giving a loose veneer of peace, to a civ that was pretty distant from their own regardless. At the time, anyways. They also wiped out an upstart oceanic society and moved to remove the memory of them, but the archivers already knew.

## (3524-present) The third credulous cycle 

The third credulous cycle is when the concept of Phidian existence would clash with outsiders to a degree that deeply traumatized their kind. That being the existence of ||archiver probes||. Phidians had stagnant tech in many fields, but they had detection systems more advanced than other societies. They saw humans arise, they saw prospect spacers arise. They saw the sprawl and saw the archivers. The free minded Phidians that the cabal had let exist temporarily proved potent in inference sciences and they had apparently thought they detected more civilizations than the ones everyone knows, including the folding ones and [[Virgo]] wanderers. But most importantly the archivers. Who horrified them as they realized they knew about the xenocides they had been doing in their part of the galaxy. Worse still prospect space had become a demonic civilization in the eyes of the Phidians by the year 4600 had to deal with an invasion by an adventurist warlord pack of utanguis who were overwhelmed by the Phidian defense grid which was seen as good news for once by the Phidian cabal that their deterrence worked. It is not sure if they were warlords or refugees running from the chaos of the dominion collapse. The composers had to also be kept at bay, as the composers hated the Phidians and deeply so with their infiltrators causing mass panic within the cabal with many Phidians suspected of being composer influenced being killed on the spot, Cinderite outbreaks were constantly blamed on composers with their advanced detection systems proving at least one cause of a composer trying to set up a warp gate the Phidians had not hesitated to blow up with amassed antimatter attacks. There was a parity of tech between prospect space and phidians, but the composers were expecting to be able to out tech the stagnant Phidians sooner or later. As is the composer's eyes found proof of Phidian xenocide which made for good propaganda against the isolationists who want to be left alone- and not see their indoctrinated mind control civilization challenged by outside alien forces.

The history of the Phidians is pretty simple on the whole, life is simple despite the long struggles within the cabal of immortals that rarely bring a free minder into their cabal to keep numbers up and “free” here is very loose as even the cabal is under many mind control stimulants just not the same ones as the drones and you have your drone existence to look forward to as a Phidian and simple death otherwise. We are thankful the Phidians are not the first movers to this day, and so stuck having to deter outsiders instead of trying to exterminate the galaxy. Phidians use big data control mechanisms but never really got to BCI since the natural communication and mind altering substances towards a dronified existence proved sufficient for what was needed. BCI also as humans found out, is more volatile a mechanism with the regular interplay of thoughts/experiences causing all matter of unexpected phenomena in ways the controllable, predictable and simple drug systems the consulate perfected don’t do.

#Phidian 
#timeline 
