
What happened in the 2500’s?

It is pretty well documented in truth.  It was an age of factions freed of the vanguard doing a range of actions in a warring states like period.  Advancements here were very much in AGI, BCI, powersuit production advancing to the point of common infantry use and spaceship production allowing for mass space travel with warp relay systems and the means to generate larger warp bubbles from black hole studies bearing fruit.  It also was the century that virtual minds may have become the dominant human clade with the AI systems and hyper cyber ratio Plexus that developed during the golden swarm invasion being applied to save people who died in wars between factions to continue their wars as android avatars controlling drone swarms.  Compared to prior time periods, it was a much more ruthless period as the consequences of death were weakened by the avatar constructs and the advanced cyborg systems with their mind streams and soul AI gestalts.  The [[Virtue Coalition]] was formed from this as was the Assembly and Silent Pact.  Many alien technologies also seeped in from factions vying for advantages, almost entirely from prospect space but also from the rogue architect’s work at the Ramos foundation and the black box tech sprawl deals from gilizet offered.  Some of it was reverse engineered for the public good but the legacy of this would be very stark as the Assembly and VC formulated, and the Tikali had continued to be a divided civ as they always were even with the Minavan Vapourites forming as a powerful force competitive with the Assembly and VC with the Plexus interconnections of 2630 including minavan advances.  This created a vast machine by the 2600’s and a new era of post-biological humanity that became known far more as a machine civilization in response to the alien imperialism, the vanguard’s culling of the potential the machinery brought and the vast virtual network that while nothing compared to what the architects had, produced the Silent Pact as a rogue-ish hyper advanced entity with tech that punched well above what other upstart civs had from the blink drive.  The blink drive was a dangerous tech to have, the custodian patrols in the civic monitor for it just as they try to quarantine prospect spacers.  They failed with the latter, leading some to think they are losing grip in the region for reasons unclear.

The biggest conflict was between the Assembly and VC, the two most populous human civilizations.  The Minavans didn’t really seem to get too involved but have been an actor regardless.  The VC was a cast cybernetic census that made use of networks of neural tribes that consolidated over the decades into the vastness of the virtue coalition.  The Assembly was an alliance of world states formed after a revolution on Regnant that rapidly spread in a crusade against both old rivals and others, butting against the VC constantly as their civilization of agency and balancing power to create a cyborg hierarchy that one could get all the upgrades they ever could want even without being a virtual.  AI in these systems took on their range of functions, often as managerial class entities to the rest. 

**The [[Grand Assembly]] - Estate Wars **

The Estate was a society that came into conflict with the Assembly in the mid-late 2600’s that showed off just how much the 2500’s advancements had matured.  The Estate used baseline human levees from their pet cylinder societies against hyper-advanced cyborg infantry with power skins and drone swarms that followed them in tow to carry out thousands of tasks.  500 Assembly Defense Units, or ADUs managed to take out a million of the estate levees when trying to secure a cylinder world that was filled with 100 million people.  They had no casualties.  This was repeated around thousand times with but one casualty from civilians managing to use nuclear mines and railgun volleys.  Other injuries that were recoverable with nanites happened, many in fact.  It was just seen as part of the job.  At some point the local assembly defense leader made it a humanitarian concern as it was clear the levees had no chance against them and they saw demoralization with the enemy units enough they just used propaganda to force surrenders in advance, as the ADUs were having psychological issues from all the slaughter.  Killing them to protect the Assembly and liberate the civilian population was one thing… but an extermination campaign was never the intent.  Eventually the Estate resorted to sending in their superhuman armies, who proved tougher and actually did kill 4 of the 500 ADUs.  The ADUs killed a ten thousand of the “super humans” through their use of drone swarms to locate, triangulate their strategic actions in advance and ambush them with Masada particle snipers and micro missile volleys.  The Estate were using tech over a century out of date.  They didn’t relent.  The super humans did manage to get kills as they did know to hide their signals and do disinformation maneuvers to get close enough to kill an ADU.  Meanwhile Drone casualties on both sides were massive, but they always are.

#incident 
#plexus 
#human 
#ikirmite 
#outdated 