
The Vanguard once was the hyperpower of humanity, legitimizing their existence through the grand promise of a unified human front.  One that would spread across the galaxy.  The Vanguard was centralized as a party apparatus on [[Earth]], with most of their activities in practice being a chaotic mesh that navigated old world power and the new cosmic imperative.  The ruling body was specialized caste of sorts, one that was indoctrinated to be perfect believers in the supremacy of humanity and the long term goals of galactic colonization.

The hard power the Vanguard used came in the form of their monopoly on space travel, which was always doomed to be undermined even if the technological edges of the core colonies were maintained well into the 2300's when spaceship production methods improved enough even a middling colony could get interplanetary infrastructure going autonomously.  Interstellar travel proved harder, but even than the [[Geminga_Drive]] would be needed to keep a sense of hegemonic control over the rapidly expanding scope and complexity that interstellar civilizations had in reality.  A reality made worse by intrusions from the Golden Swarm, disillusionment with The Vanguard due to the [[Vataland]] Catastrophe and further complicating factors from long term investments that never happened, ones that led to a revolt that finally overthrew The Vanguard on Earth itself.  [[The Warring Factions Period]] ensued.  

**The Legacy of the Vanguard**

The Vanguard's ideology was described as a form of longtermism, a belief which sought the maximization of human populations across the cosmos.  One that believed short term suffering was worth the long term goal of a universe spanning human civilization.  While the Vanguard fell, belief in Longtermism survived intact and it remains a common facet of various neo-humanist factions in The Plexus and at Sol itself.  Longtermist thinking even was invoked by Tarma Vis to justify their attempt to create a BCI hive autocracy centered around their ego.  Virtue thinking and the Trisemblance of the [[Grand Assembly]] at times have some of the DNA despite both ideological frameworks existing in reaction to the failings of the Vanguard.

Technologically, old Vanguard era tech can be found still in use to the present day as while it is technically out of date by centuries the tech was built to last centuries as well.  While the bulk of Nuclear Thermal Reactor based propulsion systems were scavenged since they went out of production, quite a bit of old hardware still remains.  Even some of the oldest cyborg inhabitants of the Plexus Volume still have in term a layer of Vanguard era tech.  Laser highway structures and O'Neil cylinders can also be traced to the Vanguard era even if many of these either have got decrepit or otherwise renovated with new technologies.

The deep space structures that have gone centuries without contact to the outside world often still hold belief in a Vanguard existing, be it loyalists stubbornly fighting a cause that has been lost for centuries or those paranoid of the Vanguard's retribution even centuries later.  Which should be no shock, given the Vanguard's education made it very clear the Vanguard would exist for millennia to come.  (Disclaimer: the Vanguard fell in 2475 AD, it is currently 2740 AD)