

The [[Utanguis]] had under the Vusidian Dominion been on some form, noble. They were the great gardeners, creating void ecologies and solving biology to create a superior form of biology as it had been seen in Cobaltine labs. But it would be only with the Jiwarian renaissance did such tech see its maximal application.

The Fall

The Fall is the name given to what is regarded, at least by the Utanguis, as the greatest tragedy in post-Rupture galactic history. The Fall was caused by centuries of corruption finally rotting the foundations of the Vusidian Dominion away. There was Utanguis who saw this happening, the Ikeitan Expulsion was a full on civil war and the abuse of power by the pack elite of theologians and defenders of the dominion to tilt the Avatar of [[Dozin]] to claim the death of the [[Ikeitans]] Dozin's judgement and the Utanguis Apamus (high union, these are the high coordinators of ritual symbiosis for their pack and higher order symbiosis is achieved with their work) [[Serta Pulvus]] being the most well known as the martyr. However other figures of the time included Vinlinder, the packmaster who would deploy the cancer in retaliation for the Avatar's assassination and the increasing revolt that began to spread across the dominion as the packmasters were turned on by an underclass of beings who had regarded themselves as something more than under the dominion Dozin that they had assumed powerless. They called themselves Prospect Spacers. Little did they know they would be part of a centuries long revolution whose legacy terminally now spreads across the galaxy. The fall began with the assassination of Dozin, the deployment of the cancer caused another civil war to occur as many Dozinists didn't see the cancer as Dozin's judgement and had moved to what would in modern times be known as Embodied [[Dozinism]]. The chaos of the fall would be the curicible which formed the prospect spacer. And the composers. The rapid acceleration of entropy caused custodian intervention and more chaos that only would subside with the custodians withdrawaling and the spread of the new leviathans that dominate modern prospect space existence- of which hold to the entropic outlook. The ikeitans managed to also form a dominant bloc of power in prospect space, continuing an ancient rivalry against the Embodied Dozinists and Silverites whose position of hierarchy for ikeitans was too little too late for a civ that had adopted Antidozinist theology. They no longer had interest in dozinism. The Tatinite Ikeitans were long extinct. The Urzine and Balch ikeitans were much of what was left, the Tatiks a fringe nomad widely distrusted and the defecting Ikeitans to the metaysndicate regarded as forsaken for their abandonment of their fleet.


"The dream is dead. The spirit is gone. The disgust is immeasurable."

"A thousand years in vain, destroyed by the destitute institution of the pack master. Dozin has abandoned us."

"Dozin has no use for pervertable avatars."

"The Ikeitans deserved better. They were our creation and Dozin chose to massacre them? No. This avatar is no avatar of Dozin. It is a destitute puppet of the packmasters."

Try better:

"A thousand years for this? The dominion rots away, the dominion festers in parasites who called themselves gardeners. They struck down a noble being. A Tatin. There is no quantifying the disgust I have come to conceive of for the packmasters, they were meant to be beings of integrity. Instead they are worse than the barbaric degenerates the cobalt made our kind."

These scathing statements caused considerable unrest and the pack Serta Pulvus was part of it spread them, at the expense of their own pack's standing as revolts had broken out across many worlds with biocollectivist communes, wheelists and fiefdoms of rogue packs forming from the chaos of the Ikeitan exodus. Serta's pack had put down some of these revolts, but only due to their belief in stability being more important than a just order. They would get neither. For by simply spreading Serta's criticisms they would be regarded as a rogue pack all the same. Serta was someone who had the advantage of being an apamus but this only went so far, eventually other apamus more loyal to the Avatar would castigate Serta as a parasite. Other apamus however sided with Serta as the belief of Dozin being without avatars and as the greater system of life and void ecologies that they had spent centuries had grown over time. To the point a rift had occurred, one enflamed by the handling of the Ikeitans and the violence which broke out in many systems. Putting down cancerous biocollectivists was one thing, killing the children of Dozin represented with the Ikeitans as a product of the vast ecological leviathan spread across many star systems was another.

Still, Serta Pulvus would end up getting put to punishment from a pack master faction aligned with the apamus loyalists and through dubious means. Ones the avatar wasn't even informed of for despite Pulvus believing the avatar a puppet, the avatar had actually acted fairly on their own agency despite the Ikeitan culling, indeed they were why an apamus like Pulvus was allowed to be openly critical in the first place. Dissident speech was tolerated to an extent. However the packmasters wanted a more total approach especially as they saw the instabilities that arose in recent decades. The kidnapping and forced trial of Serta Pulvus was part of that. However Pulvus managed to to still state a few more things as it became clear the doors were closing in on them. Recorded as the last sentiments of Pulvus, they go as follow.

"There is no redemption for this sick civilization. There is no cure to the terminal disease which has been allowed to fester for centuries, no cure to the atrocities that have come to define the character of this dominion. I cannot know what will happen to this civilization, my failures and vanities only serve to unveil the situation so that future generations may upend this vile project and the miserable beings that perpetuate it. Dozin never sought this. Only the material and pathological aspirations of the packmasters ever did. They violated the sanctity of life with the massacre of the Ikeitans. They will do the same to more beings, they will not stop at just the Ikeitans and already have been identifying more species to prune. Their desire for death will never be sated, not with the machines, not with the Ikeitans, not with me. They will kill until all is void once more. And now I add my body to the pile."

With that last transmission, Serta indeed added their body to the pile. They were captured and tortured for years through disconnection. All rescue attempts failed, But it is said an arm of Serta managed to be recovered. The arm was a catatonic animal more than the deep thinker that Serta was. If that can happen to Serta, it can happen to any was what the followers of Serta thought. The arm was preserved by them to this day.

#incident 
#Utanguis 
#Dozinism 
#ProspectSpace 
#narrative
