Sprawl entities

The Outer Nexus was the Strongest attempt at reunification of the galaxy by the sprawl, it had managed to use their wormholes to network outwards to many systems and sprawl worlds diplomatically integrating billions of client groups in the process. Their empire was indeed the vastest one in the galaxy for a time, but it failed due to coalition forces in those other sprawl worlds pushing against the outer nexus and their aspiration to enlightenment. Indeed when things got too tense and violent there was so much dread of another mass death event many sprawl worlds cut off access to the outer nexus and the abandoned nexus was the realization of that fear when the outer nexus cut them off as they saw the consequences of their activities. Nanite plague issues, to some degree. It was at this same time the glinnvyr had been an upstart species but the glinnvyr proved ambivalent towards the sprawl and the attempts by the outer nexus to claim them client fell short and backfired horrifically when the sprawl entity that used them wanted to do a little revenge, using the glinnvyr to fulfill their sick aims. That whole burner crisis would come to color millennia of history since as it would be why the glinnvyr and architects as a whole came to be wary of the sprawl more so than other civs. The outer nexus still has remaining wormhole access in places but their role has been more subdued as internal divisions sprouted in the wake of the disconnect and burner crisis on where things went wrong. Such divisions made the outer nexus unable to fully exert galactic power, just as divisions across all sprawl worlds did. Still the outer nexus also has had to contend with subterfuge from the folding ones, one of the more mysterious groups that survived the rupture intact.

Archivers in 2022 context

The archivers still are what they are, galactic surveyors. They are the most advanced civ in modern times, with the ecumenical gone and the sprawl not really a unified entity. The archivers are a driven force, only interested in the amoral aggregation of information for archival ends. Not even for simulation, indeed their whole belief is to have absolute truth. Simulation is revisionism in their understanding. But so is all the stuff they know now, like their insight into the galactic core and what the [[Virgo]] are. The Virgo entity is not well known in practice, they are extragalactic. That much is known. However a deeper connection to the galaxy and cosmic deep time exists with the Virgo, one the archivers can see but fail to reach. The archivers recall when their kind was but worms, and how over the course of seventy thousand years they became the endless coils of energy-matter transferring assembles they are in the present. Yet still they see their kind as but worms anyways to what the galactic core has. They don't interfere with anything, it have to contend defensively with factions advanced enough to notice their probes. Still, the good work must be done. And do they shall, forever more.

#Sprawl 
#incident 
#StreamOfThought 