
Prospect space technology is an aggregation of technology from numerous societies that came with the birth of the Cobalt, the shattering and the expansion of the Vusidian Dominion.

The Vusidians, under the Mind of [[Dozin]] and their pack hierarchies would find the void ecologies they had cultivated iteratively across the centuries increasingly out of their own control, a leviathan in of themselves that colonized other star systems without their input, creating numerous unexpected emerged both benign and malignant. The cultivation on such scales was what they did, industries of growable spaceships had begun as did the early iterations of biomecha. All for the cause of maintaining the hierarchy, the species ranking system all the species caught in the expansion would come to abide by as the vusidians broke down the barriers of planet and space. Ecologies became interstellar in scale, invasiveness was the norm and a species either adapted to it or was left behind to wilt. Others were regarded as parasites.

The medical technology meant lifespans had expanded to biological immortality, which combined with the vitality of the society meant extremely rapid population growth, so the rapid expansion of void ecologies was seen as incredibly valuable to their system. Populations data taken by the utanguis did little to differentiate agents or automatas.

However it is clear the pace of expansion had disturbed other entities in the galaxy at the time- the [[Phidians]] would see the spread of the Vusidians coming and so fortified and made systems of deterrence against the "endless horde". [[The Architects]] also saw the Vusidians go from a prosperous civilization to one that came to increasingly entropic conditions in the 1200's which led to the Custodian invasion after the Yttusa Incident, where prospect spacer forces seeking refuge from the chaos of their world accidentally set off the custodians by wanting shelter at a grave world. The custodians were watching already, but the group in prospect space forced a strike at the fleeing prospect spacers and such as they believed the prospect spacers would destroy each other- the local factions caught this, and fired back harder than the custodian drones anticipated of a civilization they thought would collapse in their constant fighting just as they did in the cobalt and snuff any embers that dare to persist. The prospect of Sprawl refugees broke that possibility to them and was seen as a breech of conditions made possible by the wanderers, [[Ikeitans]] and and the composers who emerged from their synthesis. The [[Composer]] had no single form, it was a layer atop a layer, a vision beyond vision. Which is why an Ikeitan bioship can become a composer as much as a fosskemian wandering generation superintelligence. The composer formation almost was an attempt at the synthesis of utanguis and fosskemian thought, a more virulent and aggressive way of symbiotic emergence that got conflated to harmony. These distant concepts, now convergent.

The custodian invasion was brutal, the custodians had to destroy entire void ecologies full of antimatter missile using beings that overwhelmed the custodians in guerrilla strategies. Trillions of antimatter using lunatics used to a world of violence, unified against the custodians who sought the perpetual end of their civilization. Xenocide is a universal taboo in prospect space, harmonists and dozinists, even the antidozinists all agreed in the universal wrong of the concept and so presented a much more unified front against the custodians than anticipated. The custodians didn't do well with diplomatic maneuvers, they had no coherent grasp on prospect space. So they resorted to extermination.

The complexities of prospect space however, proved impossible to tackle through extermination even with the tech edges the custodians brought well in advance of what most of prospect space had access to. But still, even a few advanced prospect spacers using sprawl technology could destabilize their sweep plans. And the custodians just didn't have the numbers for the scale of conflict they were engaged in. Delegating to the mission was hard with other forces in their part of the galaxy, and the prospect spacers numbered in the hundreds of trillions. There was only millions of custodians delegated, they relied almost entirely on massive tech edges to the point of spreading self replicating kill systems and such to counter the spread of the void ecologies even as the volumetric of the void ecologies meant the prospect spacers managed to swat and nullify those systems using vast swarms of antimatter missile production crafts. The scale and energy of the destruction resembles a nova from afar. This conflict would go on for decades, the vitality of prospect space meaning they could keep bringing in new vast numbers to replenish the lost. Others went into refuge and hiding, some at Karbana [[Kinnis]] where custodians tried to discrete hunt down the refugees, as to them all prospect spacers were tainted by the mind, they all had to die to euthanize their miserable society.

The thing is. The custodians were losing more and more, the composers had conducted a vast army with better tech that kept pushing them back. And eventually, as it was clear the sprawl and other factors made the venture hopeless the main conduit recalled the custodians, the miscalculation of cosmic proportions made them switch to a quarantine strategy. One that has them still patrol those volumes, in dread. Other custodians stayed behind, having gone rogue for their own reasons like seeing the war as purposeless and seeking better purpose by recalling a purpose they had before the invasion to enact.

In the aftermath technology kept advancing faster than before, as more sapients, the innovations gained from the invasion and multipolar situation from the urzine domain's rise, the conflicting dozinist groups and harmonious union along with the cosmic clouds of the sarkic, [[Vopson]] swarms that stuck around and numerous organizations who had been part of the unified resistance against the custodians now went to fighting each other in an almost ceremonial way as the interconnectivity of prospect space expanded ever further. In the times of the Vusidian dominion, symbiotic enlightenment was the dominant belief and all were part of the empire which embodied it. In the times of the post-invasion, the populations freely flowed as there was no unified "dominion", there was prospect space and the void ecologies that made the interstellar ecosystem what it was. Component members affiliated loosely, with leviathan societies, organizations and the void ecologies as the unifying frameworks of prospect space along with the media systems which permeated in ways and application not seen before 1300, where such systems while interstellar tended to be closed systems ran by packmasters along with whatever is streamed by [[Jiwar]]. Now it flowed much more freely, making indoctrination across species normal and common. An agent would shift their identity many times, not just due to countless symbiotic, augmentations and micro-analog based cybernetics. The vast interchange of multi species leviathans didn't mean peace, however.

The goal of harmony is to embrace, speed and enlighten the universe. To free it of the dead stars that surrounded them, to be life itself. And the void ecologies, augmented now with synthetics and simulation aided evolution advanced ever faster and aggressively into incomprehensible forms, advanced ever further to the higher orders. The [[Utanguis]], fosskemians and such primary sapients became substrates, or always had been. The nanotechnology plagues of the 1300's proved harmful. But the void ecologies and wisdom of the higher ikeitans solved it, as the chaotic system made its emergencies they warped ir to make other emergence. More advanced metasynthetics had been developed as well, seen in spaceship innovations to the modern mediator boneship and the energetic vessels, along with silver ships and the vast array of less advanced but wide ranging ships built by the various sapients caught up in the void ecology with cyborg spacecraft being pretty widespread due to radiation inhibiting synthetic fluid layers and dispersal pods that line many of these vessels to counter act cosmic radiation.

The 1400-1900 time period is notoriously aggressive, in how hyper expansionist and chaotic prospect space was, with information densities greater than anything before.

Population estimate is around 200-300 trillion by 1300 AD (or to the prospect spacers, 4080 Post-Resonance. They didn't have years, they only counted seasons as "cycles". It's by a Vopallian orbit the year 810)

#timeline 
#ProspectSpace 
#technology
