
[[The Vanguard]] and post-Vanguard human societies always harbored a deep resentment against the galactic reality they found themselves in, having in prior times sold themselves on the idea of an open universe to make in their image.  The sprawl even, didn't have such luxury.  

The [[Utanguis]] and their Vusidian Dominion had no such outlook, the sprawl to them was but a higher rung on the pyramid.  But it was always a project of weaving higher symbiosis.  The Utanguis saw themselves as those weavers, as the great integrators.  The construct of the pyramid, the pyramid of dozin (as found on [[Blolados]]) as inspired by ancient ruins from their home world.  This was a belief that lapsed into a collective, dogmatic insanity.  It was the basis of their analogous ideals of justice, liberation and such.  They really do believe in this ordained role to existence, it is empirical science as far as they would will it.  That they had to do as they did, they had to struggle down the road others refused.  For they were all that could.  Fosskemians were too finicky, unreliable.  [[Vopson]], too single minded, too selfish.  The [[Whandl]], too cowardly.  The [[Sarkic]], absent of perspective.  The Utanguis believed their kind exceptional even faced with so many other beings like themselves, even with the core reality they were the uplifted pets of a [[Fosskemian]] made AI system.  That didn't stop them from their formulation of purpose.  It was hard to shake, so hard they had managed to perpetuate a unified civilization on their symbiotic faith and beliefs for over a millennium.  One whose legacy on what prospect space is, remains inescapable.  

Who formed the void ecologies?  Who developed bioships to the point of being an art form?  Who uplifted numerous species in a society of species merit?  Who built the old hyperspace conduits used even in the present?  Who built the struggle roads?, standardized symbiosis rituals?  The symbiont engineering revolution?  Even the taming of antimatter?  All products of the Vusidian Dominon over the course of a thousand years.  Even with the traumatic fall of the Dominon, the Mediator Gestalt, [[Urzine Domain]], Silverite Herds, Invuka Combine, Baluch Domain, Bilethought and even the An Appath are a continuation of the cultural and theological legacy which is said to have began with the Jiwarian Renaissance.  Where in the Civic one sees a cutoff, a rejection of the Vanguardist past towards upgrade obsessed societies that rejected the very nature of their own kind, the Utanguis instead sought to adapt and advance the expression of what had been so long regarded as their nature.  While dangerous thinking was no concept alien to the Utanguis- Silverite Herds see hard power as the truest way to understand one's place in [[Dozin]]'s hierarchy, the the [[Mediators]] meanwhile were much more into soft power to the point they held to a pretense of scientific [[Dozinism]] and even tried to spread Dozinism to the [[Metasyndicate]], Urzine with their bioship fleet leaders are hostile to the very being known as Dozin and the Bilethought see their kind as fulfilling the supposed final judgement of Dozin- that is the great punishment for the god killer's striking down of Dozin's avatar.  The An Appath meanwhile sought to break with the hierarchal aspects of Dozinism for a more egalitarian "wheel" they proclaimed the truer expression of Dozinism.  The funny thing about all these beings is that they all believe there is a Dozin, that there is an integrative imperative and that the leviathan societies shall fight whatever the underlying doctrinal disagreements.  