
Tikuvus of Fymus is an abomination of life and existence whose pack had forsaken them for their killing of the Apamus.  Yet the Mediator Gestalt has rewarded them with the highest possible honors in their civilization despite the vast trail of atrocities to which they carve, from the killings of void ecology inhabitants suspected of being of the Bilethought to the assassination operations conducted on reformists within the gestalt.  It is that treachery and unrelenting hostility to which Tiluvus of Fymus which allowed them to climb the hierarchy to disturbing effectiveness, even secretly having their own mentor killed when they needed to become a grand apaturvier- in the defense of Tiluvus the mentor had been plotting for Tiluvus to slowly falter.  The ambitions of Tiluvus have been sown from the struggle roads, they had chosen to tread the hardest ones know just to say they did even as the trauma of doing so continues to haunt them.  Tiluvus appears to even believe they still tread that road- decades after it was supposed to have ended.  

Tiluvus is a common archetype in the Mediator Gestalt- the ones laden in The Struggling Ambition, where their ambition is to perpetuate their advancement in the ranks so they may continue the tribulations well past the acclimated process.  Still, the ambitions of Tiluvus has made them a terror for the actual ruling Mediator [[Sadlon]] who sees Tiluvus as an existential thread due to being such a close part of the current Mediator hierarchy.  Tiluvus seems to believe there to be a need to invade the Plexus and humanity as is, seeing them as something to destroy as a potential rival to the mediator gestalt.  Along with make a potential mercenary caste… Why wait for them to completely close the gap?  The main weakness Tiluvus has is how despite the prestige and clout in the upper echelons they have so bloodily smashed their way into, they are profoundly paranoid and isolated.  

Despite having packs under their command, that their own pack had forsaken them has left them very much a loner in their own command structure as a packless one.  Tiluvus frames it as how they are an individual, but in truth despairs in silence over knowing they can never return.  Instead choosing to become ambitious and seek grandiosity for the name of [[Dozin]].  Before they need to slog elsewhere. 

#Utanguis 
#BBEG 