

Hakeem Lisbon is someone from the depths of Vurmaria who had defected from the Assembly, as had many others because Vurmaria is a vast underground cave network that had human-Rasuu activity since the late 2400's after human colonists stumbled upon the large mountainous Rasuu civilization where they found the most humanoid alien life known.  The Rasuu are still large bulky beings, ursine-like in stature and adapted to living in vast cave cities due to the arid surface of their home world.  Really it is a complex world, from the toppling peaks to the Svallik, the Arc Plants  and the jungle-like realms.  But the porous limestone that makes up a lot of the largest continent and regularity of CMEs has led to a world where human tech shifted towards specialized technology.  In the dim age there was mostly isolation and fighting as the Rasuu managed to attain their own industry by following human examples, but modified to fit their needs.  Tikali also appeared on the world, mainly colonizing the seas as they do which created a world where it seemed different environments were dominated by the different civic sapients.  

It expanded further as more sapients migrated to the world mainly due to being a world state that harbored those running from the societies around them, a world free of the large powers.  That was the ideal and when the needs appeared, solar laser deterrence systems were set up in the system.  Other sapients like the Ikirmi also showed up, the Ikirmi occupying the depths.  And than the Natvyr who proved the most troublesome group, they were relegated to the polar regions despite better cave systems in the temperate-tropic latitudes.  The Rasuu had tensions over their world having all these aliens on it, but the more species-state minded Rasuu were mostly appeased by having Rasuu dominated caves while letting their "star fevered" surface dwellers run cover and act as middle traders for the deep Rasuu.  Many Rasuu also did leave the world as nomadic groups, found the stars surrounded with Tikali and human forces.  This is the world Hakeen Lisbon was born into, one where they had always known a world of multiple sapients and the cross-containmented ecology of Vurmaria.  The Rasuu home world, the super earth battered by flares, made a grand multi species world state experiment that the Assembly had impressed into client status with the widespread unrest that had occurred in the process.  The laser power satellite highway that streams energy down to the underground magma laden geology of Vurmaria is cover for the increasing energy from geothermal power the Rasuu had built.  Hakeem had spent life on the surface but also had gone underground where communion with the Rasuu in the upper caves was common, mainly shared training and practice.

#human 
#outdated 