Aklan Hraka is an [[Alephid]] of the [[Rasufian Legion]] who had ranked their way up to actually run stuff by engaging in conflict against the [[Ikeitans]] and pale swarm.  Their utilization of deep volume doctrines paid off big time in the void ecology infiltration required to forced pitched battles needed to have good merit.  Aklan has been mostly addicted to the parasites of their home world, as they remind Aklan of home even as they fight in the endless void in hopes of finding a way to fight the monsters at home.  Aklan has formed a private guild with some [[rekimites]] and has fosskemian associates that promise aquatic fusion bombs.  Some of the rezin had divided on the matter since they feared such bombs could destroy their own society that worships and feeds their own kind to leviathans, Aklan insists their leviathans are not so benevolent and the "submissive" Rezins who secretly creep it out shouldn't worry about it.  

The other Alephids like the rezin just because they like how they too hunt and deal with ocean worlds but they can't help but think in private the Rezin are kinda fucked up.  The rezin meanwhile have members who are disgusted by all the parasites they lacerate their shells with and their hatred of the big fish.  Really it's less a species thing and more the cultural groups of Aklan's little private guild happened to hold conflicting views.  There are actually alephid that worship Samalas and Rezin who attack and want to destroy the megafauna the bulk of their kind rely upon for civilization.  So there's that dimension, needless to say Aklan made a mess as more Alephids and rezin got into the guild from ancient rival tribes.  Meanwhile Aklan had to deal with whatever ritual war the silver legion had them in, which mean there are members who want Aklan dead or to "meet their end" in the ceremonial wars to prove a point in putting an end to either the fusion bomb business or purge those not with the program.  

(Yes, an organization of aquatic beings who argue on the ethics of blowing up the big fish with nukes the Star beings have.  It's amazing stuff.)   Aklan basically did a lot of such activities as a prized warrior who bred eggs made to fight and as a desire for revenge since so much of its tribe was devoured by the monsters.  It joined the legion seeking a new life, only to see its world as a whole was surrounded by monsters who hungered.  The [[Rasufian Legion]] gave Aklan the strength to fight the monsters and Aklan aspires to use that strength to fight the monsters at home, a grand sacrifice in its dreams emerged.  One where it destroys itself with a fusion bomb to destroy a pod of leviathans.  The parasites were whispering these ideas, seeing a release from existence that would ensure its home would see a brighter tomorrow with the wisdom of the legion and the liberated societies it saw in its dreams.

#aelphid
#rekimite
#rasufian
#ProspectSpace 