
Serta Pulvus was a four armed, two headed Utanguis, and so was regarded as something higher than the usual Utanguis. Their body was heavily augmented to handle the metabolic demands, the growth of identity for Pulvus was overwhelming. And enlightening. Pulvus had been a critic of the Vusidian situation, able to for a time make such criticism without punitive disassembly thanks to their pack and position of power. Serta Pulvus however became more dissident as the death of the Ikeitan who their pack had strong connection with. The Ikeitan was known as Gysuvus Tatin, a devout Dozinist Ikeitan who like many of the Tatin fleet had found their existence under apocalyptic conditions. Gysuvus refused to kill itself despite the avatar's judgement. Serta Pulvus tried to harbor them from the violence but it was impossible. The packmasters and their culling ones made no exceptions. Serta Pulvus was distraught as Gysuvus was found en route to the icy moon it had was meant to hide at by the culling ones. They shot Gysuvus with countless rounds, piecing it. Gysuvus couldn't even fight back, they were not armed. They were a freighter vessel, not a military vessel. And they weren't a mission freighter either. The killing of Gysuvus was but one of a billion ikeitans killed off by the Exodus. Serta Pulvus was implicated but their position kept them from worse punitive actions. However the suspicions of Serta Pulvus persisted as their criticism of the Dominion began to hit a fevered pitch. There is a several things Serta had said of the Vusidian Dominion said to have basically seen the next century where the Dominion would Fall. And Fall it did.

#Utanguis 
#ProspectSpace 
#MediatorGestalt 
#MetaDisputed 