
Sortor the Liquifier is a [[Fosskemian]] from the world of [[Giparna]], a Jibari and Jatarsian Rainbow agent who has at times even managed to end up a pawn of the [[Composer]] attempts to infiltrate the [[Waywardians]].  She had an elaborate upbringing from the mixed species upbringing.

Since Sortor was born on Glisymer to a [[Jama]]-[[Utanguis]] couple who adopted a Fosskemian, this kind of parenting isn't unheard of but what made it peculiar was that there was parenting.  Usually spawn don't get parented in the [[Metasyndicate]], not out of explicit taboo but because the system usually works against it as a good idea to begin with.   The added stresses of being parents, one a symbiont by the name of [[Jitvus]] and the other a Jama AI by the name of [[Va70]] did not help too much especially since the later Va77 became a sector boss and that sort of thing is seen as a conflict of interest other agents go after.  Jitvus managed to skirt the problem while mentoring their Fosskemian to juvenile life.  Sortor through the background Jitvus had actually learned a lot from their in theory biomechanically different mentor.  Much of it was on universal strategies and of all things, patience.  Something exceptionally hard to teach to a fosskemian, but Jitvus managed to teach Sortor what it called 'internal sound'.  Other things Jitvus taught Sortor was where to get weaponry, how to raise credits, how to interface with the flesh and more.  Sortor grew big and had a shocking degree of tenacity for a fosskemian, which allowed her to be persistent in the cause of assassinating waywardian dissidents amid the [[Akyamas]] scandal.  

It was in those years she alternated between working on Jatarsian Rainbow and Jibari organizations, as they supplied and generated the most work for [[Metasyndicate]] denizens.  Sortor became very notorious for her use of precise resonance wave ambushes, liquefying their targets in the process.  It is how she became known as Sortor the Liquifier, of which the WSO loves to show snuff footage.  Sortor also had formed a relationship or two with male Fosskemians though she considered [[Kazzlehorf]] too grotesque despite still being with one for a tiny bit.  That troubled Fosskemians who liked Kazzlehorf, a high profile fosskemian showing disdain for Kazzlehorf?  Who is this character?  So Sortor had to deal with would be assassins, she knew they were coming the second she openly discussed how little she thought of Kazzlehorf and so prepared, indeed what mattered more was those who hated her actions against the waywardians.  Especially the waywardians who had her on the list of dangerous players.  A title she liked, "dangerous player".  She preferred being known as the liquifier, however.  Still all this mess as a celebrity merc sorta led to her favorite pompadour company, a male Giparpian fosskemian by the name of Hibli getting liquified by waywardian assassins.  This led to a lot of reprisal killings, needless to say.  Some fluid from the liquified hibli she keeps around, apparently.  She doesn't say where.  She continued the merc work and isn't a fan of waywardians, but has appearantly been trying to get involved in the mediator revolts seeing potential work there.

#ProspectSpace 
#Metasyndicate 
#Fosskemian 