The Leviathan of Urzine Venna is an elder ikeitan.  Massive they are, so massive they have a gravity well as strong as the smallest asteroids.  The Leviathan is over a thousand years ancient, with older gen bioship design clearly present compared to the cleaner and more cybernetic Unfolding One.  It is old enough to recall when the dominion was still active and the fateful moment it had to watch its parents be murdered by those trying to exterminate all [[Ikeitans]], aLl the time spent in hiding with its fleet and the offer the composers made to the Urzine fleet when the custodians invaded and how they were in part responsible for the rise of the [[Composer]] entities.  They recall watching as the utanguis seemingly learned nothing and naively believed just accepting the ikeitans had a right to exist after centuries of attempted extermination would make mends.  Even as they let the cancer spread into their space and refused to let Urzine be involved.  

The [[Mediators]] managed to renew a sore spot when they got in the way of Urzine expansions into the inner volumes their ancestors once thrived- when the younger fanatic Ikeitans took over and tried to crusade against god and all its followers.  The failure of the Mediators to make mends would lead to the war of mediator treachery when the mediators tried to align the silver legion and the bilethought against the [[Urzine Domain]] over their assaults on the holy sites of various worlds.  The Metasyndicate did little to help, if anything they actively incited the conflict further.  They sent mercs amorally, as they do now.   The Ikeitan Wars came and went, stalemating so long a tenuous peace had been achieved as the two factions once again turned inwards.  The Balch seceded not long ago and the Urzine and Metasyndicate had somewhat warmer relations, in that the Metasyndicate saw the mediators as threatening their harmony in the stable peace and so needed to chance power balances as work was done containing the Bilethoight than later subverting the Invuka Combine.  Their alliance ended with the [[Akyamas]] Disaster and the chaos that came from that.  Indeed the Akyamas Scandal has led to the Urzine becoming more paranoid of everything, to the point a being known as [[Gavus]] detected with godlike ability became something that the Urzine fleets had need to dispatch a couple Ikeitans and a whole contingent of crew to handle.  And The Leviathan of Urzine Venna had been sent in against better judgement.

#ikeitan 
#UrzineDomain 
#ProspectSpace 