
The Unfolding One is an adult Ikeitan whose existence has led it to [[Gavus]].  That is because the Unfolding One and [[The Leviathan of Urzine]] developed a mentor relationship of sorts, evidently the unfolding one had met the Leviathan at [[Kasanajas]] and they formed a rapport that has continued over the last couple centuries, they recall fighting the mediators in the Ikeitan wars as the [[Ikeitans]] take deep pride in how they never forget.  The Unfolding One however, after the wars took up much more interest in unlocking the secrets of the universe,  how it ticks.  The Unfolding One made its own Grapple Drive and a range of space time rift experiments that may have ended up pissing off a force in this system that the Leviathan was frozen in terror to know was lurking in the system.   The younger age means there is a recklessness, the obsession for knowledge and willingness to risk thrall lives has been troublesome but the thralls formed a research outlet on Ipusudos, an icy moon of Gavus.  

Since the thralls on the Ipusudos are [[Fosskemian]] and [[Sarkic]] in origin.  To those who know little, They’re uppity and don’t defer like the hierarchy inclined [[Utanguis]] and [[Yalilu]].  But they still hate god and when they hear there’s a Lost One to fight they can be angered into wanting to fight Gavus.  They dislike The Unfolding One but remain deeply upset if you kill the unfolding one, needless to say they won’t be happy if you try to act like you liberated them and apologizing will just make them have deep disgust for your worm-like mindset.  You can also call them ungrateful or just be on your way.  The real pain comes when the Leviathan finds out, anyways.  Also if you killed the leviathan, the thralls are just flat hostile towards you and will just attack you on sight for killing a such dignified member of their society.  Mind ikeitan bioships are easily the most dangerous things not Gavus or the lost one you fight.  [[Mediators]] are tough but it is clear these bioships actually do outclass mediators at least in raw maneuverability.  [[Mediators]] compensate with powerful automata and having lots of turrets/gadgetry along with deadlier nanites.  Along with more resilient ships that have harder to figure out weaknesses from their multilayer shields and such

#ikeitan 
#UrzineDomain 
#ProspectSpace 