
Uponti is an Ikeitan century in age, and so is very much matured even if it has a long way to go before being an elder.  Uponti is somewhat a weird figure in Ikeitan circles mainly due to their sympathy with the [[Yalilu]], to the point they have a mostly Yalilucian crew.  Uponti hears them internally and knew of their continued worship of their Great Guides.  Uponti kept this a secret mainly because it didn't divine how that could be [[Dozin]] and because it has stakes in an issue with the Balch fleets who have been unruly as hell lately over their hyperspatial weapon tests that has been causing panic over the belief it will piss something off the Urzine, Balch, [[Prospect Space]] or even all of the known galaxy are not yet ready to face.  Uponti dreads the Balch project, just as its guilt for the bombings the Urzine fleets did to the Yalilu eats away at itself.  How many societies can be said to have truly been enabling Dozin?  The utanguis for sure, but the Yalilu and their ancestral worship?  The Cosmic Cloud and... whatever it is they do?  The reverence to ancient sprawl black box tech the Collectors and [[Pidarti Kinnis]] have?  Such doubts plague it even as they continue the bidding of the fleet.  [[Jumaki]] is contentious a world for Uponti needless to say.  So basically a juvenile Ikeitan questioning the cause due to the liking of its Yalilu thralls.  Uponti even has been advocating more Yalilu rights much to the irritation of other [[Ikeitans]] who can't stand its whiny juvenile wavelengths.

#ikeitan 
#UrzineDomain 
#ProspectSpace 