

Liduzum is perhaps a case study in the sheer amount of peculiar places advanced life has managed to develop.  For in total mockery of ancient human conceptions of where advanced intelligent life can develop, Liduzum came to be.  Liduzum is a highly volcanic desert world in orbit of a brown dwarf known as Lidus B.  Lidus A is a F_Class star.  Liduzum's ecology formed in these conditions with highly acidic oceans thanks to all the vulcanism on the world which made the world a hotspot for sulfuric organisms whose teal/white colorations complemented the yellowish coloration of many other organisms on the world who in these low gravity conditions made use of many skittering appendages.

And from those skittering organisms came the [Whandl](../../Stellar_Abyss_Setting_Bible/2_Sapients/Darwinian/Whandl.md) themselves.  The [[Whandl]] proved an amazingly industrious species on the world, where they persisted in the harsh conditions of the world to the point of managing whole city complexes built on the kinetic energy of geothermal plants, earthquakes and even were doing experiments with space travel until the Dominion invaded.  The Dominion during the occupation were impressed enough with the Whandl that they allowed them to ascend [[Dozin]]'s Pyramid and this has created a world laden in incredible wealth.  The world has in modern times become a mixed realm of Whandl, [[Vopson]], [[Zakkai]] and more who continue to bioform and geoengineer the world not to make it a nice friendly place but to make it even more violent a place by design, with even Lidus B being rendered full of cloud cities and an alkaline void ecology that had been cultivated into a vast biosphere in its own right full of life.  

The Whandl are from a low gravity world, one that is comparable to Io.  A thin atmosphere incentivized the need to stick to crater ecologies.  The phosphates of the world was rich and mixed with the sulfuric acid seas that filled Liduzum.  Much of which was a byproduct of orbiting a brown dwarf, where radiation and such was held at bay by the rather intense magnetic field of Liduzum, as Liduzum despite the tidal pressures and metallic aspects, had the stacked phenomena of a sulfuric world warmed by the weak, stovelight of their parent sun where the constantly changing sky colors and crystal filled realms of Liduzum.  The psychedelic realm is full of scuttling organisms, whose gliding and long limbed shapes/forms come from the local fauna being evolved directly from the flora.  The core aspect of the ecology is in effect, one built around branching organisms that create web-like superstructures across large parts of the world.  Of which break into more organisms. 

Despite the limb splitting, Liduzum life does have gender in a weird way.  Males have on this world developed a hive gamete structure where there are ‘limb’ polyps that need to connect to the detached limb of a female liduzum organism to gestate a new organism.  Such reproduction systems can get convoluted.

#homeworld 
#ProspectSpace 
#sapient 
#sulfuric 
