The nature of prospect space biosynthetics is convoluted by an often forgotten reality of prospect space- that is the Synthetic Polymers that life in prospect space uses.  Generationally prospect spacers converged genetically from centuries upon centuries of bio engineering work.  This was something which spread across their void ecologies and own life, co-opting reproductive systems to unify the encoding of the super life which the Dozinists aspired to make.  Fosskemians didn't often bend to this due to composer flash cloning and vopallian ecologists just being able to do their own thing.  Less can be said for other forms of planetbounder, indeed what makes the super life unique is how it can adapt to many biospheres, many ecologies.  The Invidun Combine wanted this super life to be universal, but many species were just opposed.  The super life never took total hold, despite many symbionts using the synthetic DNA encodings often for cross-compatibility with a range of clients.  The cancer using the dozinist brand of synthetic life was somewhat bad for PR.  During the Vusidian Dominion the synthetic DNA was the standard, dissident Utanguis groups that refused to use it had to run, since biometric scans easily can discriminate Bloladian polymers from the symbiotic standard as it was known.  Bloladian polymers wee preserved regardless even by the promoters of the symbiotic DNA, mainly for prosperity and past awareness.  The Utanguis were much more apt to care for their past and keep awareness of it, especially after the excesses of the Colbaltine AIs and the glorious mess of the Jiwarian Renaissance.  Retsina Slinvados would be known for creating the principles of bio-integration, with their pack assisting the efforts to ensure a legacy for their pack beyond the point of awareness.  

This is where the basis of prospect spacer tech paradigm comes from, along with the carbon computing and the mutating algorithms of the Fosskemians which made Prospector than Composer AGI.  Jama AGI also is a product of such algorithms, but with very different operant purposes.  Other such prospect space AI manifested from void ecology networked minds known as the Ivoltic or the Ikeitan Bioship synthetic intelligences.  Both of which are products of bioengineering gone amuck and not even the only examples of highly intelligent beings arising from the void ecologies.  Just the most blatant and prosperous such entities.  

This is why a vast array of biotech emerged.  As prospect space has a wide range of environments, void ecologies, symbionts, parasites, diseases, mega cancerous entities, bioships, growable architecture, floral micro worlds, extracting micro worlds, living road colonies and so on.

#biomecha 
#ProspectSpace 
#synthetic 
#technology 