
- The Bells
The bells are something which appears to cause despair in the minds of those who hear it.  It is played in secret and often is meant to be will breaking.  It denies free will ever existed to begin with, but really what is being meant is the resolve to oppose those who use the bells.  They can be of limited effectiveness in practice, especially when they're too stubborn but it just needs to be good enough to thin the numbers down.  The bells usually echo simulations of inevitable defeat, as a form of deep propaganda directed at the enemy it exists to make 

- The Burning Dream
The burning dream is a VC based information war method mainly used as a form of deep propaganda, it creates collective to dreams to show horrific consequences to galvanize a large share of the consensus into action.  These dreams are generated from a range of factors, including the personal dreams and visions of the propagandist's very thoughts and sentiments on the matter.  Meaning to those who use the burning dream, they believe they have created the most honest fork of rhetoric in human history.  Detractors meanwhile see it as just another brainwashing method and a "tool for the cultist".

- Constrainers
Constrainers are a form of limitation that basically pushes back against actions undesired by the constraints set.  They are meant to be subtle- appear like just a form of depression or weird new conviction you have.  If it is noticed it can be removed.  If it becomes too obvious it can be overridden.  They were meant to be a nerve staple, but nerve staples never actually worked.  They just were little better than lobotomies that would be ripped out of those imposed given the chance.  Their downfall was being too obvious and once removed, created extremely hostile enemies.  As most activities by a target aren't an actual problem, the real goal of a Constrainer is just to inhibit selective actions.  Be it accessing a place they can't be, enforcing a diet, keeping violent compulsions down or joining the military forces.  It injects narratives to keep the victim from moving in those directions that are meant to fool the victim into thinking it is their own thoughts.  And it does so by letting the victim form those thoughts based on its suggestions.  Some more aggressive constrainers were used in the warring factions period against "downstreamers" back when such people were capriciously used for exhibition in those times of poor human rights.  

- Monitoring AIs
Total surveillance is not usually accepted, in part due to the scale a civilization in the 2700's operates on, in part due to how delegated many of those kinds of systems actually are and in part because peering into or interacting with someone's mind without consent is generally seen as a violation of an agent's rights.  However some people have such rights bypassed and that is what the monitoring systems are utilized for.  A monitoring system not only track all the equipment the target uses, but also their own thoughts and internal simulations to a rigor that has led to all matter of embarrassing memetics infecting the servers of a monitor.  For that reason the servers are kept discrete, but instances have happened where such servers ended up being used to create a simulacra (not a proper SES virtual) of that person to interrogate.  

- Ransom AIs
Ransomware evolved.  Functionally they latch to their victim with a means to kill them and track their stream to continue a ransom of their servers aren't good enough.  Some use constrainers to stop them from suicide, instead blackmailing the victim or threatening fates worse than death.  They instruct their victim to carry out tasks for the ransomer be it stealing data from a superior or giving them secret information about the enemy.  Ransom AIs try to isolate their victims and even fake their victim's identity to push away their friends and family.  Such AIs are highly illegal due to their blatant violation of agency but have found use in data infiltration operations regardless.  

#plexus 
#infomation
#synthetic 
#technology 