

The Alnilam project is one of the more intense projects as it was basically an OB-class situation where experiments with starlifting had been carried out, to little avail.  However it also had potential to be used for stuff like wormhole generation, but without the hyperspatial knowhow or strong enough insight into dense gravity waves it has been a frustrating venture.  Regardless some attempts at wormhole generation had succeeded, but they were not stable and had some reliance on copied prospect space notes that led to some trapped tech causing an incident that destroyed one of the space faculties built around Alnilam.  The high energy star also has been a source of exotic metals that became the main way they get funding for the large structures built at Alnilam with ambitions for world ships given tons of energy from the OB-class stars of the Orion Nebula of great interest to the [[Grand Assembly]].  The impressive size of the artificial worlds at Alnilam are known to hold multi species habitats and researchers, with clear intent on replicating the synergies of the Ramos Foundation but with the Alnilam Ideal of being in the spotlight so the darkness cannot devour them.  They basically believe the Ramos Foundation was purged because they were too quiet and too out of the way, but still a lot of concern they may get destroyed by something regardless remains a worry.  The gamma radiation from the main star has complicated life, as no local flora can handle it and biotech is not good enough for gamma flower like prospect space.  Indeed they resent prospect space and have agents trying to steal/acquire/bring back prospect space samples.  Prospect Spacers find it baffling they don't just ask but it is clear the alnilam Project is trying to independently develop the tech as much as they can and rely on reverse engineering instead of depending on black box tech like some of their peers.

#plexus 
#megastructure 
#GrandAssembly
