
Prospect Spacers die a lot.  A lot.  One could say they have a million ways of dying we can barely begin to scratch the surface of.  This is thanks to the advancement of regenerative technology and the conscious streaming symbionts, which layers atop of simply having many symbionts and layers of nanite protection in the case of those who are in military forces instead of a mercenary organization.  Prospect Spacers have a relationship to death not really fitting of the human theory of mind.  For one a [[Fosskemian]] is usually known to not fear death, they fear silence.  A gruesome torturous death laden in many interactions is seen in a more positive light than dying old and alone.  The [[Utanguis]] as the other founding species make the situation worse, as their understanding of intelligence and living is derived from the intersection of three intelligent symbiotic organisms.  

While the Utanguis fear the death of their symbiotic unions, constant pain is seen as good in part due to their understanding of bondage from suffering with their own zooid filled form.  The modern utanguis isn't just those three intelligent species, it is also many other organisms co-connecting with the Utanguis and this is seen very obviously with the Jilikas and various biosynthetic organisms that live on and around them for a wide array of tasks.  This mixture of outlooks went into the entropy acceleration of the Composers.  And it went into the logic of regeneration modules, where a fosskemian regularly does die but they are able to continue existing with regeneration modules in a new biomorphic body.  Symbiont stackers prefer to not have to use the modules as the costs of cloning and reintegrating many symbionts can be a hassle.  Some even [[Jama]], or clone themselves into delegate/branch minds as a reproduction method as prospect space is absolutely unmoored from traditional breeding mechanisms.  Or at least, procreative breeding is seen as niche and having offspring is an autonomous decision especially given the atomized existence of the meta syndicate or the way utanguis are created with ritual.

#ProspectSpace 
#biomecha 
#symbiont 
#technology 
#Infrastructure 
