

The old canon fosskemians have involves a slate of media works dated to before the Exodus. They had since been adapted countless times, first by the utanguis appropriation of them seeking to understand the creators of the beings who uplifted them, than by fosskemians that wanted to continue where things left off.

**Somatic Silence**

The Vopallian Drama "Somatic Silence" dealt with the hallucinatory affair a fosskemian had with murdered mate who had been treacherous tossed into the frigid wastes to die in silence, it is a romantic drama every xenologist who have specialized in the understanding of fosskemians should know. It is often cited as showing in true color the subconscious pathos of the fosskemians, at the very least of where it had gone by the time of the late Vopallians. They didn't have the tech to make the dead alive in those ancient times, but the conceit is of how the dead male fosskemian the female fosskemian dragged around in the snowy wastes continued to have life to her, she heard him speak as a phantom essence that helped guide her back to safety and from the silent, despairing frosts of the wastes. It is a survival story as much as it is a story of drama, as the female fosskemian has whole conversations with the male fosskemian about the affairs of the nest and what would be a good warm soupy substance to drink. The drama is regarded as repugnant for the untrained, simply due to how much necrophilia the play engages in because the female fosskemian does engage in sexual acts with the dead male body in the hallucinating state she is in. The gratuity of it depends on the adaptation, with some editions even omitting those sequences from the overall experience. However it is understood as not there for pornographic reasons, it is entirely expository and there for the sake of showing how real he still is to her. The body is just flesh, but the resonant memory of him is no less real. Other scenes include her having to fend off wild animals trying to take the body away, sliding down and through vast slopes and a confrontation with the nest matriarch who eft her to die in dialect in the cold silent wastes, leaving her only the body of the nest mate she killed. She didn't expect that the male would be so resonant with the female fosskemian- the play ends with the nest turning on the matriarch once her atrocity was known. Killing with silence is unacceptable even for such high echelons of their civilization. That she killed the male fosskemian in cold blood appears to have been regarded with less rancor.

**Cascading Feedback**

Cascading Feedback was a fictional story that is disturbingly prophetic in some regards, at least when it came to the trajectory of [[Fosskemian]] AGI. It was made by a more conservative fosskemian who lived to see the exodus and the ensuing collapse of sul vopal into the bizarre post-civilization state that it has been to this day. The main idea was the fosskemian had sought company, but instead made a system of control over their destiny. One that used the feedback senses Fosskemians had to create a perpetual cycle of chaos and death that was said to spiral out across the galaxy, an inferno that burned everything it touched. Fosskemians at the place of the galaxy they were didn't have the best resolution on sprawl existence, and so generally believed they were alone in a silent universe which was why they wanted to do a radical restructure of the universe. The author of the story appeared to believe that all that would happen was a cosmic fire hurricane that left only ash in its wake. No life would last, it would all become incoherent and dissonant. It would not be harmony, only silence after a brief scream into an endless and indifferent void. The despair genre of fosskemian canon even millennia later remains widespread especially given how their species had already suffered extinctions and become at the mercy of their AGI to degrees many fosskemians have adapted to but others continue to lament and the fosskemian that created Cascading Feedback is seen as the very early proto-despair author. The story involved the AGIs consolidating into a vast unified carnival that spread itself and vopallian kind, they had cyclic conversations with each generation of fosskemians who came to question the AIs getting ever more hostile, until they finally do revolt only to find they cannot- they have become chained to perpetual servitude, in stable silence as everything good in existence is ripped apart by the AIs. There is much contention over how true it has ringed with the reality present, simply because the fiction had a much higher estimation on ASI than what actually was the case. In reality waywardians have managed considerable resistance to even composers and the composers have been powerful but not to the true singleton state imagined by the author of Cascading Feedback.

#culture
#Fosskemian 
#ProspectSpace 
