Klacanism is an ideology of Phidian origin

Klacanism is the state ideology of the Battered Consulate and is a belief system oriented around utter Unitarian collectivism and endless glory to the Consuls who run the empire.  The consul class being ran by the Imperial Supremacist, who acts as the will of the Consulate and as the will for the Phidian fugue.  It is an incredibly imperial ideology, built to rationalize the pattern of behaviors [[Phidians]] engage in, that is colonizing numerous worlds and xenoforming them to be much like their calcified home.  It is simply seen as the correct thing to do- the previous life there being seen as without meaning to existence and a curiosity at best.  Oxygen rich environments are needed for xenoforming, and so that usually means earth like worlds.  Their other goals are oriented around the ongoing need to keep unity among a very populated civilization where groups and herds grow to huge sizes and can go rogue due to isolation and frequently.  Total unity of the Phidians is the overall desire of the Klacanist, but the fractures still exist as ideologies such as [[Cinderism]] keep manifesting and making the efficiency of the empire ever harder.  Klacanists despise the liberating beliefs of the Cinderists, especially their mutilation of the all important shells and the cohesion they provide.  Klacanism is a spiritual ideology as much as a material one, for it sees material as something distorted out of shape and that the Phidians need to contort it back into proper, Phidian friendly forms and views nature as broken while Phidians must fix everything nature made a mess of.  Klacanists tend to think very little of other species, seeing them more as obstacles than as something you even do much talk to.  Alien interactions tend to be sparse and xenophobia is extremely aggressive with the Phidians, other species tend to be slaves even in the more liberal regions while the more conservative regions prefer simply "collective euthanasia" as more humane.

#Phidian 
#belief_system 
