
The modulus is an asantum development, and is one of the widely practiced belief systems of the architect that has been adapted by other species (but often with the original intent lost).  The Modulus is a system of stated truths, to which a reductionist, absolutist worldview is formed.  With a species where uncertainty plagues their very ability to function to their highest potential- made worse by the frequency of conflicting personalities. The need for absolute truths overrode and so the appeal of the modulus becomes clear.  One can't contradict the modulus initiatives, which dictate everything from city planning to the amount of tendrils one is allowed to have.  The modulus is often enforced with incredible, legalistic rigor with the rule of law being crucial to the success of modulus thinking- for there is usually meant to be one accepted interpretation as well and it is meant to be universally applied, even to upper classes.  

Whole revolutions have broken out when the upper class defy the modulus, giving the modulus much of its logocratic nature as the modulus itself is an image, not a text.  It is never to be altered.  In practice, across the thousands upon thousands of asantum worlds out there, the modulus has seen alterations but they are rarely acknowledged.  But it has caused huge fractures among the [[Asantum]], to the point where you see colonies who reject the modulus entirely and as a result usually regress to more tribalistic, self contained modes of living.

#Architect 
#be