The system of belief which the tangential syndicate follows  is rooted in the deep past.  For the Tangential Clients all seek to remake the distant past and modernize it beyond the theocratic deviations of the greater caste system which the [[Aveterriat]] had so long been accustomed to by the clerical elites of the protectorate and the mechanical elites of the machinist.  The Tangentialist isn't a traditionalist however, instead the tangentialist focuses on making the past the future in order to bring to fore what they believe to be the most valuable aspects of pre-caste aveterriat civilization.  Primarily the flexibility of client-peer relations between social groupings and a form of socialist mercantilism based on the trade of populations and the trade offs of authorities for larger shares of common wealth. 

In effect, selling off the power of empires for money without much sense of consequence for doing so, given the tendency to seek grey areas whenever possible.  The ability to be both neutral and an ally while maximizing personal benefits is one of the major ideals of the tangentialist, which has many similarities to pragmatism except with the more ideological desires of social justice in the name of sanctuary being the end goal as opposed to solely personal gain.  Tangentialism is widely practiced in the architect and essentially acts as both a faith and economy policy.  It appears all over the place, having no real anchoring in any society.  It has been seen in the [[Vmiskii_Empire]], [[Image Network]] and [[Custodians]] all the same.

#Architect 
#belief_system 