
The [[Virtue Coalition]] and [[Grand Assembly]], for better or worse, were the product of post colonial populations whose inhabitants grappled with the core issues of [[The Vanguard]]. 

Much of this came down to the thinking of Hyuni Gren, whose outlook of Virtue was the first post-humanist belief system to absolutely displace the state humanism of the Vanguard. 

Virtue in essence, is about the common Virtue we share.  An appeal to the wisdom of the collective instead of the caprice of individuals with agendas.  The common wisdom, as it was.  Hyuni did foresee the potential issues with this, but these were issues that would be smoothed out with proper ethical teaching and shared empathy.  And that such was the case for any societal framework.   Hyuni Gren's work is at times called Grenism, but she was not the end all be all of the thought system.  

The second major addition came from Jinan Votov.  Jinan was someone who had been an engineer of the systems in place in the swarm wars and was a major technician for the war efforts under the coalition admiral known as Yao.  Despite Yao being associated more tot he Assembly, it is clear Yao's contributions to ensuring human survival in the application of fragmentation theory that broke the psychopathy of the Golden Swarm.  Such applications were built through figures like Jinan Votov, who saw the thought clouds of the [[Vopson]] and the community individual clocks managed.  Neural-tribalism was already a common practice but making such neural tribes into voting blocks within a larger system came from Votov's early tests of greater census.  Later larger scale attempts learned from the Ceti Disaster in how neural-linked webs of people interface and why it had to be a smaller neural tribal unit; the main reason was to not overwhelm someone. 

The idea of the equitable neural tribes within a large coalition where the Grennist style of collective wisdom was embrodied by a cybercratic government was a Seperate development to some degree, with no real individual behind it like with prior developments.  The cybercratic network formed over time, but the neural tribes and the noise as forces both rapidly moved in the direction of automata since the noise was already virtual, and so the infrastructure built in the wake of the golden swarm accommodated the cybercracy well.  The local governments were connected like nodes to the greater virtue coalition, with a lot of conflict arising from this between local elites who didn't want their thoughts known to so many.  This led to consolidation wars and a lot of local revolts from the noise who wanted a better life after being hit with the brunt of the golden swarm's invasion while these local colonial elites either ran off to Sol or went into hiding with the intent on monopolizing post-war power. 

The VC's noise came from those who did the bulk of the fighting.  One of those local totalitarian monopolizers was [[Tarma Vis]], who also made use of neural tribal tech but in a deeply autocratic direction.  The Imperium of Vis was mainly a late 2500's problem, a personality cult where everyone was watched by a central Vis and implanted with the will of Vis.  Vis would be subverted by the noise and overthrown in a mostly bloodless conflict known as simply the Subsumption of the Vis.  The machine warfare was common but it was mostly to subvert the infrastructure Vis had.  The act was seen by virtuals who at the time were dealing in terms of more Assembly-type deals as pretty much a warning sign the Virtue Coalition was rapidly expanding.  The Grand Assembly would rapidly consolidate in response, the conflicts between the emergent VC and Assembly would not be the norm just yet.  At the time the general stance was the VC could be worked with on the common cause of rebuilding a human civilization.  Tragically, the divides simply ran far too deep.

Meanwhile the VC's cybercratic system grew with the violence of local colonial revolts and the establishment of the neural conduits to connect to the greater VC.  So many nodes in their greater noosphere emerged as the grey matter of their society melded into the architecture itself.   The means of production as one would put it, was collectively owned by the noosphere as a whole.  Mere thoughts altered the many algorithms and programs which were built, and often mutated by the local noise to be as equitable as possible.  No individual's thoughts were valued more than others.  Media flux was a mix.  Flash printing would get pretty widespread by the 2600's along with a lot of top-down housing structures built with equality in mind.  Indeed the push to equality was one that had its origins in a desire to break with authoritarian thinking entirely.  This didn't completely work. Some neural tribes were better off than others and the noise never would be ones to be readily placated with the material comforts of egalitarian post scarcity. 

**What is the Noise**

The noise refers to all those not part of a neural tribe, they still factor into the noosphere but kept a stronger sense of individual will.  The discourse on neural tribe-noise tensions is one really only well known by those of the VC.  Since the noise is wanting, the neural tribes are mostly local and internal.  Neural tribes register as Separate people in ways the noise and their looser binding to the virtue don't.  The noise has many strange contortions of humanity, mutated rapidly by their own psychosis and post scarcity nihilism.  They mostly are kept at bay because they keep to themselves, but their outlook has been known to infect the noosphere especially in more recent times.  The neural tribes can lapse into collective psychosis as well.  Needless to say, psychological analysis and noosphere menders are common jobs in the VC one need work to rigor and will for.  As while working in the VC and its systems is optional, many still do so just to have purpose and something to do outside their internal mutterings and hobbies.  The dichotomy of being in a neural union and being noise has led to some internal resentments, as the intra-infrastructure is considerably more inclined towards those in neural tribes/BCI hives.  The alienation those of the noise feel is enhanced to an extent by how the noise fittingly includes alien species such as the [[Ikirmite]], [[Stevik]] and even the rare others who have wandered to this part of the galaxy.  Neural tribes tend to have less variation, with Steviks being just wholesale incompatible with it beyond neural bonds because the Stevik aren't really collectivistic in that way.

The Neural bonded are common in the noise and appear even within neural tribes, where neural bonds act as conduits between them which has been a contentious issue within the noosphere on the question of if such bonds should form within the neural tribe with comparisons to incest being all too common.  Mind that all experiences, even sexual, are felt within a neural tribe and while neural tribes and worlds vary on how much intimacy is afforded (bond limited for instance), others within the coalition despite following the common virtue census still prefer looser coordination within the network.  They often are characterized as Wandering Thoughts and memories.  There are also those who want further mind consolidation to a full on formal gestalt, on the belief this total transcendence is needed to defeat the Grand Assembly.  

The middling of noise and tribes just being derided as holding them back with their intrusive thoughts and decision neurosis.  On the other extreme, mainly within the noise, want a great flowering of new individuality with recent inspiration from the [[Natvyr]] hives who took on a new form of hive capitalism that they saw enhanced the flexibility and efficiency of their hives.  Others just wanted more appreciation of their arts and believe the individuality and atomization of being noise was good.  In effect the VC due to achieving a post-scarcity world abstracted the troubles.  Psychological problems and mind became the norm.  

The VC embraced post scarcity and rebuilding the worlds to a post-scarcity civilization built around egalitarian noospheric democracy with heavily cybercratic infrastructure and automata collectively controlled by the noosphere holding their system up.  People tend to be androids with server networks holding their actual minds instead of as a mind connected to the body.  Said minds in virtualscapes just see existence nothing like the material world seen.   The systems of laws and judgment are built on public wisdom of what is virtuous justice.  At times this has led to mob justice, however the "self correction" the public wisdom has for abortions of justice have mended the worst such incidents over time.

Meanwhile with the Grand Assembly there never was as radical a shift to such mind linked societies.
