
The spiritual aspect of the aveterriat, due to the bottleneck caused by the world spanning protectorate is characterized mainly as a highly unitary form of reincarnation not based on any morals or ethics.  It is just believed to exist, and primarily only for the [[Aveterriat]].  The Aveterriat believe other sapient either don't have one, have one or in some fringe views, are part of the same greater cosmic network.  These reincarnation networks are believed to be as real as gravity, it is just expected to exist and they have been trying to see if it really does,  but haven't really been successful.  The usual assumption is that technology has yet to tap into that medium, in practice such beliefs have actually made the Aveterriat less interested in actually using mind uploading tech as they just don't care to allocate resources to such an obvious, natural aspect of existence.  One works, dies and is born to work again.  Why bother with uploads/robot avatars when you can breed more aveterriats?  

These essence networks explain why the Aveterriat lack much a fear of death, because the individual dying is consequence free.  But it's the species dying or population drops that worry them- for the essence demands increased population growth and declining populations cause dead Aveterriat.  This framework has had great implications, for it is why the protectorate was so obsessed with killing colonies off- because they were convinced they would be sending Aveterriat back home and were dismayed when they didn't voluntarily return.

#aveterriat 
#Architect 
#belief_system 