## Context Overview

The ikirmites come from a clade of organisms who mostly dwelt around the hot zones of [[Ikirma]], nomadically traveling the abyssal savannas to feed on and built settlements from dead leviathans and farm life in a given area through a process called semiotic shepherding, which is in effect the manipulation of the prey organism's lighting signals. Predatory organisms used to just do what anglerfish in earth do, but the intelligence growth meant ever more elaborate patterns were needed to fool and eventually you had whole series of semiotics for a whole range of ever increasingly elaborate interactions. The ikirmites would evolve to take advantage of this in far more clever ways, as their analysis and abstract thinking allowed them to do long term investment strategies that enabled them to farm the grazing hydras through mere suggestion. And as evolution is limited by survival genetics, the ikirmites would artificially select for those who were must susceptible to the manipulation. So they became cattle for the ikirmites. Other domestication patterns also would occur, especially as some biomes had organisms that were not susceptible to such semiotic manipulations. They had secondary domestications for hunting animals and what not too. That was back in 4000 BC. The Ikirmite history would extend much longer. 7 millennia longer. However for the sake of brevity, let us go over the ikirmites before contact with humanity.

## History/Society Overview

The Ikirmites had over the millennia moved from a society of cunning, brave manipulators of nature to manipulators of each other- than to paranoid secret obsessed cliques. Their theology was one of extreme despair. They had become a post-trust civilization whose primitive post scarcity conditions mainly served to allow those part of their cities to wallow in silence. They had wars for the sake of aimless violence. For the sake of satiating ancient gods with the blood spilt. The pantheistic theology and its details changes around the world, with complex weaves of syncretism and metatheologies that developed as a byproduct of resolving contradicting faiths. It appears by this point, there is no real sense of future in their minds. They had deduced a vast eternal universe beyond their world, but even with the best pressure suits they only would find an endless wall of ice locking them in. While a more organized, non apex predator adjecant species would have perhaps used collective means to break through the ice, that kind of organization never was what the ikirmites were capable of. Too distrusting, too antisocial by human standards.

The Ikirmite cities were however, very developed by the time of contact. The branching phenomena continue. The Ikirmite social structure is very loose, the reason for cities more or less was due to the ancient gods congregating to a narrow part of the world in their minds, so you saw concentrated populations who got into constant silent conflicts with each other. First it was manipulations, the manipulative Ikirmi holding a web work of incredible clout within a city, they were the flasher class and they directed for the ancients. A mix of politician and prophet, in effect. It wasn't really theology to them as is, just how the world was. The flasher class was overthrown across large swathes of the planet around 1200 AD, as the frigid crisis and the cooling destabilized their civilization. A rejection of urbanization occurred, they became nomads in large parts of the world once again which allowed other parts of the world with the technocratic organizers to sweep in around 1350 AD, only to split off from their home land and join in the nomadism creating the Flowing Reality where hydrocomputation in the 1500's cracked when hydrothermal vents would erupt. 

Tunneling into the mantle also became common with geoengineering the depths. Indeed the Ikirmites had computation centuries before humans did. The barriers to rapid industrialization however meant tech mostly caped out, while attempts to surface had been attempted the logistical barriers to it and the unbreathable void above made it near impossible to get funding for. Still by the 2000's the thriving of the Flowing Ones and their dominion of [[Ikirma]] made for very elaborate cliques of Ikirmites and cryptographic patterns/codes unbreakable to the point even a guru hacker with quantum computation would struggle. By the 2200's however, society destabilized once more and the Flowing Ones had a violet global clique war that saw an increased acidity of their ocean. This caused many lingering problems for Ikirmite and non-Ikirmite life alike with slimy coating being needed to even safely go to some parts of the world.

It would be only in the 2300's that the PH recovered but the legacy remained, no trust, cryptic cliques and a flattened social hierarchy to what existed before. There had been no real hope for freeing themselves of the prison world that can get them killed as easily as some acidification of their ocean. They felt trapped, many Ikirmites just waiting to perish. Than the probes appeared. The contact was a shock to the whole planet, the probe tried to be stealthy but was not equipped for what they would encounter down there. It didn't hide well enough and the cryptics were exceptional at noticing outliers. The failure of the clandestine probe meant contact's hand would be forced by humans who were completely blindsided by the advancement of this underwater civilization. The next step by the humans would be to attempt formal contact, something more elaborated on elsewhere.

### Culture Examples

- Ipuklipas
The Ikpulipans are a convoluted meandering society of watchers watching watchers, where the associative networks of semiotic lights can only work.

## Biology Overview

The Ikirmites are large. They are usually about 20-30 feet in length (or killer whale sized).  The Ikirmites made use of numerous photo receptors, with the main body hosting two protruding sets of tentacles. The heavy tentacle set exists where their mouth orifice is, while the other side is where the lighter tendrils are. They server separate functions, with the lighter tendrils are body eyes able to emit elaborate light signals. They also may vomit glowy substances at times for similar cause. Swimming wise they are able to move shockingly fast, but can also "run" on the sea floor with their heavy tentacle set as needed. Their muscular system is mostly soft body but their dark exterior is incredibly bony in texture, with a rough and thick mantle that encases the soft rubbery flesh within. Their light limbs have bulbous masses of bioluminescent cells and are very ligament-like, with the result of that being from an earlier sessile egg/purse phase of their lives that is more rooted. They are dimorphic in biological sex, with males generally being similar to females as mating patterns are done without regard to the gender of a mate with a mating selection system built again in their semiotics. As the point is semiotic matching, both male and female Ikirmites are selected towards the goal in mating. They do pattern in different ways, but these differences can be hard for an outside observer to realize as Ikirmites don't have all that much gender dimorphism to work with.

Ikirmites have staged life cycles with a more sessile stage of life where younger Ikirmites live on the chemotrophy of the vents along with the food the caretaker ikirmites assigned to the polyp garden feed them.  Good, cultivated detritus instead of the crud from the convention current pumps was part of what gave the ikirmite better nutrition to work with in the first place.

**Ikirmi Contact**

In 2615 AD the Consortium's explorers stumbled across the world of Ikirma, noticing the biosignatures they wanted to take a closer look at the strange world. Within they found a civilization, one that was very hostile towards the Consortium's probes, destroying any they came across. The Ikirmi saw them as beings from the hostile void of the infinite expanse of death one finds far from the warmth of home. They rapidly adapted their tech to combat and destroy such crafts, but later observers would arrive with more advanced tech and encounter an Ikirmi world in constant doctrinal conflict over those who seek to stay home and those who sought to leave to the void. The void minds wanted the void born as they referred to the Assembly expeditionary submersibles to tilt the scales but instead they just wanted to open formal contact due to the compromised situation. The Void Diver program was initiated in cooperation with the expeditionaries, mostly under the nose of Assembly bureaucrats who were mostly skeptical of letting a society that liked hugging the core of an icy world suddenly be exposed to a far more overwhelming universe. Mainly reminding those expeditionaries how societies that see the stars usually had been attuned to the possibility far longer while the Ikirmi were mostly ignorant of an outside beyond a justified sense of void.

Still the first void divers would find the vastness of the universe and seemingly weren't affected all that much. This may have been a selection bias as the void faction on their home world had selected for those most mentally "prepared" for anything out there. The ikirmi weren't stupid, they had figured there had to be other worlds like their own the void born had to have come from, but they weren't sure of how they could exist in such thin, vacuous media without some place full of such media. So those in their program already deduced a surprising amount. The Ikirmi however still could not anticipate the total magnitudes that existed out there, the universe being so vast and how their world would have been doomed to a complete freezing if it wasn't for the intervention of the void born became very clear. The core dwellers were very disturbed to learn the core would one day die out, just as organics do. They would look into ways to prevent that.

The void explorers would find other icy worlds like their own and puncture them, but with more care. They tried to slip through the geysers instead of drill, as they were convinced a lot of icy worlds would regularly Find complex life and civilizations just like themselves, potentially more than the amount of thin worlds the void born came from. They found elaborate, incredible ecologies fairly often as they anticipated, but they never could find intelligence. It seemed a lot of ice worlds just petered out before hitting intelligence. Mind the Ikirmi would one day find the existence of other ice world societies like the [[Veemer]], the [[Asantum]] or Skimmers, but these were thousands upon thousands of light years away- one in a trillion.

But for the time being it was clear the Ikirmi had their niche within the Civic as more void explorers formed colonies not just in ice worlds but in the deepest trenches of Terran and oceanic worlds where the high pressure made islands of habitability for them.

Additional information:
[[Ikirmite Cultural Conceptions]]
[[The Ikirmite Naming System]]
[[Ikirma]]
[[Ikirmite Contact]]
[[The Manifold]]


#plexus 
#sapient 
#ikirmite
#aquatic 