**The Custodial Aveterriat**

The [[Aveterriat]] were an industrial species who for millennia were developing ever more elaborate megastructures in the [[Architect Expanse]].  They have a huge presence in [[The Conduit]] as well, being a severe mess of globular segmented organisms at this point.  No single form left, there is all matter of dangerous situations which have emerged with the Custodial Virtuals.  They melt into each other in many situations.  The Custodial Aveterriat are the most by the books, with the logocratic systems of better judgement organizing the cosmos of the Conduit and the endless voids.  They have policed countless universes with other custodian forms, and have no intention to stop.  The Bulb Folk are particularly virulent in regards to the Primordial Universe.  They believe themselves to be the light that shines upon the darkness of our universe and are one of the several groups of the Conduit who allied to invade [[Prospect Space]] in the past several centuries.  They still believe the most hostile actions are needed against Prospect Space, but the other factions do not support them directly anymore due to fears of the Harlapans and Sprawl splitting their resources.  Still, the Aveterriat factions who didn't get merged into the Conduit continue to have some love for the Bulbed Folk even if they see all conduit virtuals as effectives just hollow echoes incapable of reincarnation and the Architecturals as the greatest fools in recent galactic history.  

**The Custodial Humans**

The custodians know what humans are from the multiverse they had traveled in- they're bipeds who like hierarchal orders and usually theologize hierarchy when secular hierarchy isn't reverent enough for them.  Sometimes they shift to more egalitarian minded societies but even those have hierarchies in more abstract fashions in practice.  The most prominent cosmic virtual empire of humanity, the High Order, managed to ursurp a local admin in universe FGA-7260 (loose translation), of which had led the custodians to pay close attention to the rapidly advancing primordial humans.  The High Order as a society is one that is basically a civ of god hackers where owning entire planets is a given and doled out to everyone- just generate a new planet for them.  The high order itself is an administrative body of omnipresent immortals that preserve their power over the lower order humans in the universe and make cosmic law with a fake FTL system able to access anywhere in the universe at once.  This has complexity issues, but most just don't care what most the people do as long as they bow to the high order and don't threaten their position of power.  The High Order as a faction of custodians is very strange in how they actually aren't in favor of intervention in primordial universe affairs, they'd rather primordial humans not be aware of them or which part of the conduit hosts them.  Culturally they're actually pretty distant from humans, and would come off as strange mythological people with customs built around representative logic. 

Be it symbolic warfare or the way they came around to the "great revelation" of the universe they were in.  Of which had the rare intelligence the vanguard had hoped for, but when research into the cosmology got too intense they had shifted stsrategies to subvert the "old gods" and become the new gods of the universe.  Of which was shockingly easy to do, as they would learn those admins weren't all powerful and there was monitors above them in the virtual multiverse who allowed them to take over due to not liking those "old gods" and tacitly giving the go ahead of the humans could actually pull off their plot.  Which they did.  The High Order is the universe with the most advanced and successful virtual human group and they even invaded other such groups, with sub factions who also want to take over the primordial humans but the overall scope of their empire is in the grand scheme of the conduit, a minor regional power.  So they lacked the leverage to get the monitors to let them use custodians.  In reality they're substrate constrained but still advanced enough to be aware of the primordial universe and how they are actually derivative of some primitive formation of humanity still dicking around with robots.  



**Custodial Pikvivut**

The world destroyed by the Phidias it turned out had a back up.  Custodian data collection in phidian space was able to in the centuries they were exploring our part of the galaxy find the sapients on [[Pikvivut]] and copied their data.  They didn't do this to preserve and weren't really aware what [[Phidians]] may do (beyond how annoying their detection grids always catching them are).  The Pikvivut in various multiverse simulations would end up a phantom as a result, a phantom copy of a genocide d civilization.  Not that the Pikivivites knew about the atrocity, in their multiverse they evolved and prospered as far as they can tell.  It was a long crawl to space but once in space their unique usage of countless algal technologies allowed for extremely dense expansion in their virtual universe and they too, took over the role of the admins by basically influencing them to their way of thinking throw "talking with the makers" to the point they appointed Pikvivut successors and retired.  

Their cosmological framework was the same one as the High Order and the Deep Emporium had developed a rather different structure due to a dominant guild that controlled the FTL system.  Their kind is more interested in the primordial universe and some of the custodians are crewed by them even.  Their custodians have bought into the cosmic multiversal enforcement and see the primordial universe as a disgusting, savage realm.  To the point when they did learn of their primordial society's genocide, the reaction was very muted.  Just a total absence of surprise to learn that and only a continued relief that some civilization preserved their kind from the atrocity that the primordials inflict.  They're around as prominent as humans- a minor power.  

**Custodial Glinnvyr**

The Glinnvyr made many personal universes for themselves in the ascension war with there being numerous Glinnvyr who actively worked to midwife the birth of The Conduit and by extension The Custodions.  The complexity of the matrioshka brain server and its wormhole connected modules and how the virtual life within are a mixture of novel virtual forms and simulcra of organisms they obsessively studied to make replicas of to populate the multiverse led to a time dilated existence where they became ever more convinced they actually did make new realities instead of simulation.  Or at least, had a shift of worldview as the multiverse simulation got regarded as more real than the "primordial universe" the ascension war the ascensionist movement had successfully rebelled against.  That aspect led to the dominant monitoring forces within the multiversial simulation, of which oversaw the development of the multiverse and seeded it with what they had known.  It was never a complete form thanks to how they didn't know enough about the sprawl, phidians or plexus.  They had a form of say, humans or phidians but they were not perfect emulations.  

They were distorted images on what those sapients were.  They also struggled to accurately simulate the [[Harlapa]].  On the whole however the virtual clades that emerged would end up a powerful force in the multiverse with a mix of sapients from our galaxy who met many fates.  The bulk of which were extinction.  The early generations of the multiverse had Glinnvyr disproportionately represent admin cores, but over time as virtual life developed and grew the administrative glinnvyr stepped aside to personal solipsistic universes while allowing virtuals to take control in a mix of situations.  The highest monitor glinnvyr wanted the development, but wanted to see how each dominant civilization of virtual beings handled the admin revelation.  Some tried to ursurp them, others came to worship them.  Few in practice mass suicided in despair of their appearant worthlessness.  Still, the glinnvyr would be the sapient that piloted the majority of custodian protectors and enforcers imposed on the primordial universe.  With native virtuals being the second largest group and Pikvivut being the third largest group.  The appearant uniformity of custodian enforcers can hide this surprising diversity with the entities that act in service of the enforcement mechanism.  

**The Infinite Tide**

Not truly infinite.  But they loop around quite a bit.  The Infinite Network is the product of the virtual evolution that happened in multiple universes.  These virtual beings come in many forms.  And they evolved on simulation physics, with morphologies that exploit glitches in the dubious programming of the cosmology engineers.  Some figured out ways to evolve antigravity and organic FTL, others evolved wheels and other traits impossible to evolve in the primordial universe.  Intracite parts so unified and compatitible the formats they took the admins were beat in conventional warfare by the virtuals in what the monitors saw as a second ascension war at the time.  So naturally attuned to the simulations, they broke out with exploits the admins who didn't even know the programming didn't consider and the monitors wanted virtual life to do what it did- a pattern of which led to quite a bit of resentment from the admins who believed the monitors never would help them if an actual catastrophe occurred with a simulation gone haywire.  These virtual organisms didn't see the primordial universe as real strangely enough.  Just another realm in the multiverse.  

And as the Infinite Tide ursurped more servers in the neglect the admins and monitors had, they rapidly became a dominant force in the multiverse.  They had some respect for the monitors as an elder race that are responsible for their existence, but the infinite network believed they had a far better grasp on the multiverse than the primordial universe holdovers.  The minor forces in the multiverse would use other universes to deter with, as what even the actual primordial universe was became unclear and the custodian system to enforce would be set up by the monitors in order to enforce cosmic laws.  For they saw the infinite network as having attained too much power and so struck against the infinite network, using their enforcers to fragment them and foment revolts along with blocking their access to new universes generated so they may prosper in peace.  The Infinite Tide's super intelligence however, had managed to find ways to secretively plot against the monitors over their attacks and transgress with virus-like fashions.  Despite these tensions members of the infinite tide that are in the gutter of life take up primordial universe custodianship, the even though they can't stand the primordial universe and hate how slow the FTL bandwidth is there.  

**The Interlopers**

The collective name given to beings who cheat their way into other universes.  Be it from the primordial universe somehow, or from other universes within the matrioshka brain asterism that defines the whole system of multiversial existence at hand.  Such entities are often powerful solipsistic entities that see the system more for what it is and found ways to thread through the lattices and quantum states of the system and hack it to their own benefit.  As they're regarded by the monitors and admins as a sapient form of virus and primordial universe intrusions are especially loathed as the primordial universe should not be able to access the conduit and such trespassers are why the Custodian System of Enforcement existed to begin with- to find potential sources of trespassers or would be trespassers and cull them.  

The Custodian System would grow on scope despite being once regarded as basically janitor duty to deal with the landfill they regard the "primordial" universe.  As there came higher ambitions to potentially grow the conduit to a galaxy spanning structure in the primordial universe and secure the galaxy from such potential threats once and for all.  The main barriers?  The crappy FTL of the primordial universe and the sprawl which inhabits it.  Despite those barriers the custodian numbers grew enough to put at least one galaxy in the primordial universe "under watch" (or occupation).  Policy wise they couldn't explain anything of what they intended to do to the local primordials.  Some did just collect reference data, as happens in all virtual universes, others however took interest in anomalies in the primordial universe and others still became obsessed with "x-factors" that may threaten the conduit itself.  

All in service of stopping the threat of the interlopers.  Still, many did exist and custodians in multiple universes were deployed just to stop the interlopers violating the stability of the multiverse conduit.  And the Infinite Tide did make viruses to subterfuge custodians due to their own use of such exploits, but at the end of the day the [[Custodians]] remain the dominant policing force of the post-rupture galaxy in the universe as we know it.  

#VirtualSpace 
#synthetic
#custodian
#Architect 
#sapient 