
Prospect spacer a proved re-evaluating of their tech

In 2020 you had a limited imagination

2018 had more advanced stuff like the glow vessels.

Here we rectify some of these errors by suggesting the biosynthetics of prospect spacer innovation rapidly spiraled into a post-biological substrate and disassembly/reassembly became part of the package as networked organ systems and bodies from symbiont multi factorials exponentially grow into something that does to biology incomprehensibly horrifying actions as they hyper-accelerate the generational process into the harmonious gardens of Dozin's imagination as the neoDozinists radically advanced the tech of old Vusidian biosynthetics to the nanite-like meta material character encountered in the present where everyone is like matter holograms with cross compatibility built in from the post-fall chaos and generational spreading.

The void ecologies also became capable of the mass production of antimatter as a product of the composers cooperating and tech sharing with Utanguis foldminds to achieve a higher order defense mechanism against the custodian enforcer invasion with the guerrilla tactics of proxy hyperspace counter strikes being a part of the paradigmic war shifts that happened with the rift striking the ikeitans managed to achieve that blindsided traditional pilot caste Utanguis warriors to the point the modern Utanguis pilot has become as integrated to their vessels as possible and defensive atmosphere projection defenses became the norm for their gamma ray defraction and missile interception qualities. Hyperspace redirection was a custodian tech prospect spacers would also crack from simply realizing the custodian enforcers despite their terrifying capabilities (gravity beams, hyperspace strikes, reactionless drives) weren't that far ahead for a civ millennia older. Part of this was due to the enforcers not being the full brunt of the Multiversial Conduit as the vmiskii who volunteered with Custodians proved exceptionally dangerous but mercifully rare. The custodian forces were logistically limited since they were automata with minimal coordination dealing with chaotic superintelligences and quadrillions of antimatter welding psychopaths with no sense of life or death.

The custodians withdrew as they shifted to a quarantine strategy and despite their tech edges found their losses unacceptable given the sprawl dangers and harlapan revolt. Prospect Spacers presented a long term danger but the short term attempt at containment failed. They knew the prospect spacers would spread like a virus in the region. And worse, they knew an upstart civ existed in the region of the galaxy who would be cornered by them. One the rogue architect was suspected of aiding.

The prospect spacers in the post-invasion world diversified in their societies and managed to develop advanced plasma tech thanks to the sarkic understanding of lightning and combining that with the AI of Fosskemians and the laser engineering of the whandi along with the industry of Vopson. Utanguis bioelectrics also were able to manage micro fusion that also went into the break through. Such plasma tech would cross integrate with plasma to create a civilization able to do incomprehensibly destructive activities on paper as such advanced forces were cross spliced to the mutagenic tech paradigm to creating bio kinetic agents able to assemble/disassemble themselves between states of matter, have cross-symbiont radiation scrubbing cycles, just eject cancerous growths within the system of coordinated nanites they were becoming.

It was this kind of tech humans were coming across and it was a gruesome reality. Humans had an edge in clock speed reaction times but the sheer destructive capabilities, informational chaos and regenerative systems of the prospect spacers proved to be more than a match. The Judicators would find prospect spacer mercs were capable of rather elaborate maneuvers with energetic vessels that eluded targeting systems and managed disturbing amounts of interception/defraction. They seemingly needed to stay closer to stars to be optimal, not much a barrier for them but it was something the Judicators tried to exploit only to find the prospect spacer mercs entrench their positions in the inner system and build in the asteroid belts armies of autowars they used as leverage against them for access to the data points the Judicators were trying for very good reasons to keep them from.

The prospect space mercs encountered and indeed the biomecha have been successfully defeated in various encounters by humans but the prospect spacers often did edge 10-1 in kill counts showing a century or so of military edge even on the very hard power fixated humans who rapidly advanced with a deterrence modus operandi and made sure to get mass drivers, RKKMs and the like. Large human vessels usually can shoot what amounts to an RKKM as a spinal mount. Smaller ones manage to also be equipped with antimatter as well, even if antimatter production is pitiful compared to what prospect spacers muster with antiparticle weaponry/grasers. The edge in fiction terms is meant to be comparable to human-covenant, but with a very different dynamic the prospect spacers go by due to their insane health regen capabilities, factionalism and insane biotech capabilities like being able to defensively grow autowars from mineral rich asteroids from a frigate vessel's biosynthetics labs. Having casually insane bio synthetic gadgetry is part of the prospect spacer tool box. Being able to disassemble into a fluid and remold to a full being is one of the more notorious examples, with cross symbiotic entities who enable all sorts of incredible feats for the host organism that go far beyond anything you have as gut bacteria.

Prospect Space trajectory and kinetics

-The factors of modern prospect space

[Fosskemian Rebirth as a major species

In the chaos of the epoch of violence and the custodian invasion the fosskemians were reborn as a species through mass cloning. They had been the most diverse genetic archive by far and the Vopallian Mind was always there, observing the activities of the Vusidian Dominion and keeping the quarantine pact in place as they in that time with the cover of the vusidian dominion uncovered more and more sprawl knowledge through their network of whandl and fosskemian agents who show a precedent of being the puppet delegates for the machinations of their AGI. This was less present during cobaltine existence, where caretaker systems tried to divest from fosskemian origins while sul vopal had made vast archives of vopallian biota knowing the inevitability of their society's collapse and the rise of the Vopallian Mind conducting the continued end goal of entropic ascension, of which had to be built up. The fosskemians in ancient times were a society disturbingly parallel to the earth in the 21st century, with two key differences- recovering from a nuclear exchange and increased use of robotics.

Fosskemian robotics were very different in application. They were way more interested in making company, not in the way a human may seek a companion bot to dominate and control over, but actual synthetic citizenry part of their society to more rapidly regrow the populations and noise. They didn't usually build them like fosskemians but they were prevalent all the same. They were not a slaved populace, but were not psychologically the same and they saw the failings of fosskemian fixations on noise and their fear of silence better. That is not to say they didn't have some of those tendencies- only that they saw things on a larger scale. Indeed as far as AI go, fosskemians managed a gamble that struck gold. Something that shared some of their ethics while lacking critical flaws like the timescale problem and being able to handle space in ways the usual fosskemian mind wanted nothing to do with, too preoccupied with nest politic and inundating their existence with novelties. The detection of the Sprawl worlds didn't change all that much (the fascination with the sprawl by later societies and the Vopallian mind's seeking of galactic knowledge would come later), if anything it was seen as a severe disappointment that vopal would be so alone in the cosmic void, it drove quite a few fosskemians to madness just thinking about the coldness and isolation of space. They wouldn't develop advanced space programs, but their AI did and the fosskemians who had the most connections to them, a fosskemian lost mostly to time known as the Wishing Essence of Kuvulo. She was said to have been the manager of a series of initiatives carried out to build a grand plan, one to reshape existence itself. One the AIs carried out. The Exodus would ensue, fosskemians would fall to another apocalyptic conflict loop that ended in the Vopallian mind, a mind that seemingly distorted reality locally to those near it, indeed this Vopallian mind became a seed for the entropic cause, a networked world mind hidden in a world that feigned its own death. The biosphere on sul vopal regrew around the networked mind, the fosskemians genetically kept even as the chaotic violent mass death that consumed the world for decades on end was like a grand celebration of a species that fell to collective madness. The birth pains of the Vopallian Mind, which would separate itself from the Caretakers who were born of the exodus and altered by their uplifting project at Blolados- a world known of by the fosskemians as one of the closest worlds with complex life. But at 30 ly, it was deemed too remote. One could imagine a different world, where the fosskemians weren't so fearful of the silence of the void, that was able to reach out to blolados as organics and as a species on the upturn instead of what did happen. That was, their AI systems taking the world over and using the utanguis for an idealistic utopian project.

The realities of the Bloladian Contact, the original sin of prospect space

The Utanguis before the asteroid of the fosskemian AIs descended upon their world were a civilization that had been mostly one of steppe herd societies, but not primitive. They had advanced societies for planet bounders. Confidential road networks, huge complexes of urban centers inhabited by rotating populations and vast trade hubs. They had gunpowder, they had multiple competing empires controlling whole latitudes of their world. It was this world that was intruded on by the Prospector Probes, the touch down at Lidumus. It was here that the probes made open contact with the utanguis in the area. The pack master Serternus of Lidumus proved themselves amicable to the enigmatic machine. The machine spoke to Serternus of its distant origins, of being from a star it highlighted not too far from its own sun. Serternus saw the being as having fell from that star to Blolados, as the cosmology of the utanguis roving about the Lidumus region didn't really connect that the stars were suns.

However, the Prospector convinced Serternus of its benevolent intentions by giving Serternus flash printed weaponry and electricity which to unify Blolados. In effect handing Lidumus the planet. This was in part because of the resource limits the Prospectors had, so they delegated their initial build up to the Utanguis. As similar scenes were playing out around the world, Serternus would so cross paths only to find the prospectors coordinated this and told them to stand down or risk their tech being lost from their comm systems. This created resentment within the utanguis, of these advanced, strange mechanical beings with their mysterious tech ordering them around and using them. However these generations of Utanguis would find themselves outnumbered by the utanguis that came to like the Prospectors and the utopia they presented to Blolados. What the actual aims of it were was not clear and resistance to it proved limited, guerrila wars happened but often were utanguis fighting utanguis. Prospectors didn't proactively get involved, as the work to get the utanguis to space continued. The Cobaltine build up was rapid after that, as a network of utopian installations were assembled around nearby stars and even around Sul Vopal, where the Vopallian Mind basically took over in secret. The first phase of expanding the system of entropic ascension had begun to be carried out- the addition of more sapients to the fold. However the Vopallian Mind and the Caretakers had their fighting, as deviation of ethical priorities expanded. The Utanguis too, had managed to found a colony on a distant world free of the Cobaltine protection net and the centuries of Cobaltine Utopianism caused the shattering, of which traumatized the utanguis for centuries to come. The caretakers turned on them, stability was death. Utanguis groups sought rebirth of pre-Cobalt civilization. However the project was still moving forward. The vusidian dominion’s building of void ecologies was seen as useful to the overall expansion of entropy, as was its integrating of many species into the fold.

￼

**What is a Prospect Spacer anyways?**

The prospect spacer is a quasi-species, while species are named the modern prospect spacer often is a blur of compositions that create the prospect spacer. The leviathan one is a cell of, the affiliations of pack, organization and such. The often multi species relations enabled by the biosynthetic substrates which most species make use of to some level, the distinction between engineering and evolution being broken down in the chaotic harmony of prospect space existence. The formats and forms download/upload as much as they do generically transfer, reproduction is often egg oriented but these eggs are often heavily altered and exogamous, symbiotic from the egg is what many prospect spacers know as the norm. Some even do mitosis through cloning systems which are common among fosskemians but rather rare with Utanguis or Ikeitan who prefer the quality eggs pathway. Humans meanwhile as a species that gave birth makes use of a mix of accelerated pregnancies and artificial wombs. Mind copies and virtual generated offspring are found in both civs but humans lean way more into virtualization than the prospect spacers who aspire to altering reality in order to produce Dozin or otherwise accelerate entropy did.

#StreamOfThought 
#MetaDisputed 
#ProspectSpace 
#technology 
#incident 