
Ancient knowledge from the times of the vanguard showed they knew of them, of their civilization. They were a large, prosperous empire once. One that we would have to prepare for diplomatic arrangements with and deterrence against. At some point in the 2300's however, their civilization appeared to go blank in the records. Annihilated by an unknown force, or so it seemed. Their civilization seemingly collapsed. And the blankness would stick for centuries. Little did we know this was the work of actors in their society hiding what was actually going on, feeding us false information from the limits of warp travel relay based knowledge. These ancient relays had been whandi based, the whandi stopped coming. Some whandi stayed in the civic, but mostly as a population that sought to cooperate with us against the "Vusidians" and the golden swarm to some extent, even if the best they could do was give Intel on their weaknesses in exchange for letting them colonize various sulfuric biospheres most people wanted nothing to do with anyways. They sentimentally chose planets, with some of the population using sulfuric asteroid space cities. But This was in the 2500's, just as humanity was reeling from the collapse of the vanguard and the dark age of warring factions, mega corporations and scattered virtual networks was in full swing. In such hopeless times anything was valued, even alien forces. The truth of the matter was far less fortunate in practice, the Vusidian Dominion had been dead for centuries.

In its wake was a civilization that fell into madness, far worse than humans and their warring factions that reconsolidated into the Greater Systems Assembly, Virtual Coalition and the binding force of the Plexus.

The modern prospect space came under control of a system of existence that broke the separation of substrates, an amalgamation of life into a senseless tempest. One that seemed to be expanding in its scope and reach after the custodians failed to contain them. They spread now. Everything else is lost. Their civilization is lost to the madness of harmonious worship, of infinite deviations across the synthetic void ecologies warped and altered over the centuries since the custodians abandoned their attempt to exterminate prospect space and leaving in their wake a civilization more virulent, chaotic and rampant than ever before.

The modern prospect spacer is not truly organic, it is a bio synthetic substrate that has over the centuries overtaken the original biology to the standards of the Vusidian than to the destabilized grammars of the Composers and their grand vision for the galaxy they now eagerly aspire to spread in tandem with what is left of the divided, bitter and miserable faith of [[Dozinism]]. The symbiotic dreams continue their way, however the system the [[Utanguis]] had cultivated has now outpaced them, becoming a being of its own in a way- the dozin spoken of? Perhaps. But no one would truly know.

We just know the prospect space we encounter is not the one that had been imagined, instead of a stable ancient empire it is a chaotic mire. Instead of a society of the faithful and idyllic, it is a society where it seems anything is functionally possible as the biomorphous folds allowed them to meat puppet their way to quasi-immortals with cloned bodies and a sense of identity so distorted and moldable that species very minds can often blend together, the next logical progression of the dozinist dream- yet one that is opposed as biocollectivism. Was the cancer in of itself, not the final endpoint of Dozinism? Where did the desire to maintain self even against a system where self is ephemeral parts of the material existence, where the mind has no brain but consciously animates a form through the substratum of biomorphic life? Prospect spacer technology is widely feared by the humans, it is believed to weave itself into you in ways that violate your bodily autonomy. To the prospect spacer it is symbiotic embrace, to the civic minded of humans, stevik or ikirmite it is invasion.

￼

#ProspectSpace 
#StreamOfThought 