The Vapourites with the Superstructural Volumes managed to create overwhelming presence. From which they not only enhanced their ecological smart bots to capabilities that are absurd, indeed a Vapourite Livid Industrialist can be a challenge to handle even for human infantry, their serpentine/eel like forms interlocking in spades to project a range of assault weaponry consisting of spike weapons and programmable "gels" that have very nasty combat applications in breaching/precision drilling into armored. field, but it is why a Vapourite intervention against the Assembly during the post-mod night war conflict over Lost Niflheim (a volcanic ice world with huge temperature shifts seasonally. Like scaverkus but even colder and a faster rotation). It was a world that had become a major population center for virtuals and various other species that preferred the could. The world also had many religious refugees and a incidentally is the largest center for the Backbone Guild. The Vapourites intervened in their behalf against the Assembly's forces in 2765 and it was where they employed a range of fascinating Livid Industrialists who with emissary tikali of the Vapour held off a Assembly strike force through guerrilla warfare in alignment with local backbone guild affiliates who wanted to have little to do with the Assembly after the midnight war showed a society disturbingly willing to gamble the continued existence of human civilization. This showed a core aspect of Vapourite foreign policy- an eroding of rival factions by lifting up other minor factions. It was in a way to create a network of obligations, indeed even the natvyr reciprocated their dealings even at risk of another natvyr war in the early 2730's when problems with humans continued and an alliance was needed.

The Vapourites appeared in the mid 2600's after the messiness of the mush created a dominant force in the form of the Vapourites. The hydrodynamic forces at play in their computation, the mists of hope as they understand it. Yet their pragmatism and help shouldn't be misunderstood- they are wholly interested in maximizing the favors owed to them for reciprocation. It is always made clear you will reciprocate whatever they give you, indeed their debtors are the most terrifying bunch as one is always expected to or else face existential consequences. Paradoxes even. The binding of the universe itself is viewed as being at stake.

Vapourites are basically the result of many tikali seeking the "absolute dive" who had through boiled water and vapour enhanced psychoactive substances from recursively synthesized Volusutu Blackbark laced in overclocking nanites created a vast tome of racing non sense where it was clear there was tikali who believed the universe was unstable because of all the injustice in the universe and how the universe was breaking apart due to the imbalance of justice in everything. A broken balance that had to be mended. That this pod advanced the way they did had to do with a bit of luck in the fluctuations of the neomush allowing them to unify multiple pods around the superstructural volumes even while the SJU, Tulso Pod and Promoli League remained independent of them. The Minavan Pod's ascension was mostly unexpected but still inspiring to those around, including the Ikirmi and natvyr who became Vapourites along with a shockingly sizable share of humans in former VC territories and those hiding from the Assembly. The world of Minava was the initial capital of the Vapourites but in the 2760's the Great Blue replaced it as the core world to have to core of vapourite's pods and associates be closer to the wisdom of the superstructural volumes. Minava remained a major center for tech and Minavan culture. Minavan Tikali have more affinity with Ikirmi than most, mainly from pressure tolerance. But the Manifold had resistance to any transparency to the Vapourites. The secrets of the Ikirmi manifold were meant to be secure, after all. This frustrated the Vapourites quite a bit. They tried to infiltrate the manifold and had some success, which led them to tensions with the Assembly as the Assembly liked the manifold being secure and saw the Vapourites as undermining it (with a dash of "hey the manifold is one of our sectors" which is a quantum state with the manifold). The Manifold in the 2770's had to strike back against this, with tons of purges against Vapourites happening from unknown Allies in the Plexus and the Silent Pact at the abyss of the civic. Vapourites resent the Silents a lot as well, but are somewhat understanding of their situation just due to also disliking the custodians who harassed their worlds at times.

#Tikali 
#TheMurk 
#MetaDisputed 