
Reinvented [[Virgo]] we see and know are basically just beings housed in their supermassive black hole fort, who receded from the rancor of the locals but knew the locals were warded off with the core black hole even if they had lost access to most of the core to the sprawl and tarpoids. They knew they could just aestivate the sprawl away. And so continue their quiet judgements, as they always had. The sprawl were tribulation worthy to them, but the sprawl refused the tribulation and so went on to live out their own course until their conflicts with the archivists did them in. What the Virgo truly are is not well known, they are described to not really care for any of that. They are even more formless than the sprawl with their civilization of shape shifters and god worm managers. They are usually depicted as sentient singularity substrates unlike the laniakeans who are said to be woven into space time itself. How this compared to the Centaurus is not clear nor how the many vast subsocieties even a small Virgo entity grows over a couple hundred millennia hugging a black hole exist compared to the rest of the galaxy even post-injury. The Virgo didn't seem bothered with the injury, it just was. They continued on with their black hole centered hypestructure, impenetrable to sprawl forces even at their height. The outer groups and ingratitude getting cut off did however hurt them enough the outer layers had to be abandoned from sprawl bombardments over the centuries, of which they needed absurd quantities of gravity drive world killers to even do. At some point the sprawl just gave up trying to take the core black hole from the Virgo, opting for an eternal quarantine that died with the pre-collapse sprawl.

#cosmic 
#unknown 
#ancient 

