
[[The Vanguard]]'s economics were mostly fiat currency based just as the world currently is, but there was by the 2200's an attempt at a global standardization taken by the world minister Agnes Orange. The Orange Reforms basically acted as the standard for interstellar trade with the creation of the Intrinsic Unit. The Intrinsic Unit or IU was effectively a currency system that was built with larger scale economics in mind. Due to the vast populations the IU's fiat was peculiar in how it was population based. The more people, the more IUs. This was to encourage expansion and growth of populations within the colonies as IUs in practice were a form of interstellar leverage the Vanguard had used to gatekeep the best tech and special goods from the colonies. In that regard there was absolutely a positive enforcement mechanism to it, one that colonies tried to game with flash cloning and augmenting people to reproduce more rapidly. 

Additional problems came from tabulating how many people there were in the census taking bureaus who had their own reasons to overcount at times. The Corvus caste society notoriously tried to get the vanguard bureaus to count their cloned under caste as people to increase the amount of IUs they had to some success but the revisions to augmentation codes that occurred after the whole Corvus mess to limit the kinds of people who could count for IUs, which caused a deflation issue in the IU scheme that led to a lot of colonies using their local colonial systems of currency instead. The post-Vanguard entities were more mercantile in their approach as trade/commerce became between multiple factions who had little trust of each other given they regularly fought or did a little privateering.

#economics 
#plexus 
