
## Phidian Technology

The [[Phidians]] make mass produced, heavily shielded fleet systems which are communally ran as a part of their systems.   The Phidian tech base has tons of innovations in chemical engineering and in mass production of study, dependable carbon-iron alloys which tend to have a slab-like appearance to them.  The [[Phidians]] are incredibly standardized with their tech, since monopolies on spaceship production are the norm and all spaceships are the private property of the consul who leases them to traders with set conditions on how said crafts can use- such as the limit of being unable to trade with outsiders and such, in practice violations regularly happen simply due to the scale and smaller scale groups acting autonomous to the consul.   Telepathic communication and communalism are also frequent organization forms, with artificial telepathy being used within large group units in line with the general herd mentality of the Phidians.  Herds are flexible and have flexible roles, with such organization happening on a smaller scale and not top-down even if directives are given by the Consul and the thinking is usually done by said Consul.  Phidian tech is not terribly flexible and is rigid in applications, with innovation being limited for the most part to making better military technology with civilian developments being relatively rare.  They stopped at magnetic powered trains and sky rafts (really wide civilian aircraft) in that regard.  They tend to emphasize colonizing and xenoforming (which all they need to do is transport their native life to a new world).  AI automation is limited, they do make use of dumb AIs and computers though, but not with intimate interfacing beyond peer to peer systems.  The Phidians have spent an incredibly disproportionate amount of time on detecting distortions in space time however, and in this field they have become frustratingly advanced and are able to detect archived probes.  These sensors are standard- there is no hiding from a Phidian ship.  Only running.

### Vosivi

The Vosivi are creatures of Phidian origins which are smaller scale symbionts who mainly handle parasites and have proven remarkably adept at handling even nanotech infiltration, though Phidian biotech is rather weak and so they haven't made Vosivi better and won't trade with Cyrawaloc to get better Vosivi.  The Vosivi symbionts have however, been adapted by Cyrawaloc for their own improved ends.  The Phidians are profoundly oblivious as to their failings and they have gone for millennia without encountering major challenges to their approach to civilization.  The Vosivi show, however subtly, how this insularity and expansionism puts the Phidian species in extreme risk, even as they try to destroy Archiver shadow probes and innovate in ways meant to destroy said probes while neglecting many other fields of advancement.

#symbiont 
#Phidian 
#technology 