Erikworld was one of the colonies hit especially hard by the Golden Swarm, to the point to this day the acidified mess was orbitally bombarded with another wave of attacks from Ramos Foundation sanctioned expeditionary forces just to deny post-Golden Swarm [[Vopson]] flocks the possibility of ever having the world.  They did this after a long survey that kept a military force on standby encase any Vopson tried to take the world, as they had already attempted.  Vopson flocks squatting in the ruins of Erikworld were treated particularly bad, forced off world or otherwise killed.  At the time retaliatory attacks against Vopson flocks just for being Vopson was very common as the horror show and atrocities of the Golden Swarm was well in memory.  In their minds they just were being nice compared to what the Golden Swarm did to this world.  This Terran world was one of the Vanguard golden age colonies, where a figure known as Erik Visser in the 2200's lead a long leap mission to this world as it had a near perfect match to earth.  Visser's World became the name of the planet, though Visser himself became a lost soul from rather damning scandals overlooked in post-Vanguard history just due to the incomprehensible terror that the 2400's would bring.  Indeed Visser's World, once a complement almost now reflects the kind of spiteful and toxic figure he became.  

A rather urbanized commercial world known mainly for its highly educated populace and being a place where Visserism and Proto-Virtuism was practiced.  Augmentations here were also done, the distance of the world and the pride of the inhabitants made them underestimate how far the Vanguard would go to crack down.  A common error across many worlds, made in somewhat worse on Visser's World which had facilitated a stable managed situation through a class of augmented planners and census bureaus that in many ways was more elitist than the kind of mind census of the VC.  So the Vanguard cracking down meant the massacre of their managerial class, throwing the world into a state of chaos as lower class augments quickly scrambled into hiding from the persecution an installed Vanguardist government.  The fragrant code violations of Visser's World had to be met with harsh punishment.  It backfired as per usual, but when the revolts attacked the enforcer drones with surface-orbit submersibles and guerrilla conflict faculties they found there was something else destroying them in 2445.  

The Golden Swarm had arrived at their world.  The Vopson invaded the world not with orbital bombardments but with a decades long campaign of global acidification.  They ruptured the earth itself, provoking a wave of apocalyptic volcanism that covered the skies in darkness as swarms of raiding Vopson made surface entry to massacre en masse hundreds of millions with melt guns and the collection of bodies into massive flesh piles.  Nuclear retaliations occurred but it was in vain, the swarm was widespread and very distributed around the world.  Visser's World couldn't attack the swarmers in space.  The last stand of the guerrilla forces who had thought they would be fighting the Vanguard was shockingly persistent, to the point the forces that finally uprooted the swarm found multiple holdouts fighting leftover flocks still acting on their pathos in 2537.  The world by than was heavily acidified by the xenoformimg WMDs deployed and the atmosphere, seas and more were all just a sulfuric hellscape with ruptures leftover from the geomagnetic disruptions the swarm did.  Later the world became irradiated by the Foundation in 2547, so that not even Vopson could live on the world.  To this day the world is not really habitable.

#plexus 
#aborted 
 